---
id: 671a83934b61f64cefe87a61
title: Semantic HTML Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-semantic-html
---

# --description--

Review the concepts below to prepare for the upcoming quiz.

## Importance of Semantic HTML

- **Structural hierarchy for heading elements**: It is important to use the correct heading element to maintain the structural hierarchy of the content. The `h1` element is the highest level of heading and the `h6` element is the lowest level of heading.
- **Presentational HTML elements**: Elements that define the appearance of content. Ex. the deprecated `center`, `big` and `font` elements.
- **Semantic HTML elements**: Elements that hold meaning and structure. Ex. `header`, `nav`, `figure`.

## Semantic HTML Elements

- **Header element**: used to define the header of a document or section.
- **Main element**: used to contain the main content of the web page.
- **Navigation Section (`nav`) element**: represents a section with navigation links.
- **Figure element**: used to contain illustrations and diagrams.
- **Emphasis (`em`) element**: marks text that has stress emphasis.

```html
<p>
  Never give up on <em>your</em> dreams.
</p>
```

- **Idiomatic Text (`i`) element**: used for highlighting alternative voice or mood, idiomatic terms from another language, technical terms, and thoughts.

```html
<p>
  There is a certain <i lang="fr">je ne sais quoi</i> in the air.
</p>
```

The `lang` attribute inside the open `i` tag is used to specify the language of the content. In this case, the language would be French. The `i` element does not indicate if the text is important or not, it only shows that it's somehow different from the surrounding text.

- **Strong Importance (`strong`) element**: marks text that has strong importance.

```html
<p>
  <strong>Warning:</strong> This product may cause allergic reactions.
</p>
```

- **Bring Attention To (`b`) element**: used to bring attention to text that is not important for the meaning of the content. It's commonly used to highlight keywords in summaries or product names in reviews.

```html
<p>
  We tested several products, including the <b>SuperSound 3000</b> for audio quality, the <b>QuickCharge Pro</b> for fast charging, and the <b>Ecoclean Vacuum</b> for cleaning. The first two performed well, but the <b>Ecoclean Vacuum</b> did not meet expectations.
</p>
```

- **Description List (`dl`) element**: used to represent a list of term-description groupings.
- **Description Term (`dt`) element**: used to represent the term being defined.
- **Description Details (`dd`) element**: used to represent the description of the term.

```html
<dl>
  <dt>HTML</dt>
  <dd>HyperText Markup Language</dd>
  <dt>CSS</dt>
  <dd>Cascading Style Sheets</dd>
</dl>
```

- **Block Quotation (`blockquote`) element**: used to represent a section that is quoted from another source. This element has a `cite` attribute. The value of the `cite` attribute is the URL of the source.

```html
<blockquote cite="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learn-to-code-book/">
  "Can you imagine what it would be like to be a successful developer? To have built software systems that people rely upon?"
</blockquote>
```

- **Citation (`cite`) element**: used to attribute the source of the referenced work visually. Marks up the title of the reference.

```html
<div>
  <blockquote cite="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learn-to-code-book/">
    "Can you imagine what it would be like to be a successful developer? To have built software systems that people rely upon?"
  </blockquote>
  <p>
    -Quincy Larson, <cite>How to learn to Code and Get a Developer Job [Full Book].</cite>
  </p>
</div>
```

- **Inline Quotation (`q`) element**: used to represent a short inline quotation.

```html
<p>
  As Quincy Larson said,
  <q cite="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learn-to-code-book/">
    Momentum is everything.
  </q>
</p>
```

- **Abbreviation (`abbr`) element**: used to represent an abbreviation or acronym. To help users understand what the abbreviation or acronym is, you can show its full form, a human readable description, with the `title` attribute.

```html
<p>
  <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> is the foundation of the web.
</p>
```

- **Contact Address (`address`) element**: used to represent the contact information. 
- **(Date) Time (`time`) element**: used to represent a date and/or time. The `datetime` attribute is used to translate dates and times into a machine-readable format.

```html
<p>
  The reservations are for the <time datetime="20:00">20:00 </time>
</p>
```

- **ISO 8601 Date (`datetime`) attribute**: used to represent dates and times in a machine-readable format. The standard format is `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss`, with the capital `T` being a separator between the date and time.
- **Superscript (`sup`) element**: used to represent superscript text. Common use cases for the `sup` element would include exponents, superior lettering and ordinal numbers.

```html
<p>
  2<sup>2</sup> (2 squared) is 4.
</p>
```

- **Subscript (`sub`) element**: used to represent subscript text. Common uses cases for the subscript element include chemical formulas, foot notes, and variable subscripts.

```html
<p>
  CO<sub>2</sub>
</p>
```

- **Inline Code (`code`) element**: used to represent a fragment of computer code.
- **Preformatted Text (`pre`) element**: represents preformatted text

```html
<pre>
  <code>
    body {
      color: red;
    }
  </code>
</pre>
```

- **Unarticulated Annotation (`u`) element**: used to represent a span of inline text which should be rendered in a way that indicates that it has a non-textual annotation.

```html
<p>
  You can use the unarticulated annotation element to highlight
  <u>inccccort</u> <u>spling</u> <u>issses</u>.
</p>
```

- **Ruby Annotation (`ruby`) element**: used for annotating text with pronunciation or meaning explanations. An example usage is for East Asian typography.
- **Ruby fallback parenthesis (`rp`) element**: used as a fallback for browsers lacking support for displaying ruby annotations.
- **Ruby text (`rt`) element**: used to indicate text for the ruby annotation. Usually used for pronunciation, or translation details in East Asian typography.

```html
<ruby>
  明日 <rp>(</rp><rt>Ashita</rt><rp>)</rp>
</ruby>
```

- **Strikethrough (`s`) element**: used to represent content that is no longer accurate or relevant.

```html
<p>
  <s>Tomorrow's hike will be meeting at noon.</s>
</p>
<p>
  Due to unforeseen weather conditions, the hike has been cancelled.
</p>
```

# --assignment--

Review the Semantic HTML topics and concepts.
