---
id: 657e0868da73165e32763679
title: Task 8
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-8
---

# --description--

The word `most` is used to describe the highest degree or largest part of something. It's often used when comparing three or more things or situations. 
For example, if you have three tasks - Task A, Task B, and Task C, and Task A takes more time than the others, you can say, `Task A takes the most time.`

Or in the sentence `I spend most of my time coding`, `most` indicates that coding takes up the largest part of the time compared to other activities.

In the context of Sophie's dialogue, when she says she likes to work on the `most important` tasks first, she means she chooses to do the tasks that are the highest in importance compared to the others.

Examples:

- `The most challenging part of my job is solving complex problems.`
- `I like to drink coffee the most in the morning.`

# --questions--

## --text--

Which sentence correctly uses the word `most`?

## --answers--

`I most go to work at 9:00.`

### --feedback--

`Most` is not correctly used here. It should indicate the greatest degree or largest part of something.

---

`He drinks tea in the morning.`

### --feedback--

This sentence doesn’t use `most`

---

`She most likes to debug programs.`

### --feedback--

The correct phrase would be, `She likes to debug programs the most.` This is because `the most` is used at the end of the sentence to indicate that out of all activities, debugging programs is what she likes to do more than anything else. It emphasizes her preference compared to other activities.

---

`The most difficult task is usually done first.`

## --video-solution--

4
