---
id: 670515561e620a11f2d7308c
title: Task 7
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-7
---

<!-- (Audio) James: Yes, I did. It was quite a hunt. -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What is the meaning of `quite a hunt` in James's answer?

## --answers--

It means a fast and easy search for something.

### --feedback--

`Quite a hunt` suggests difficulty, not an easy search.

---

It refers to an actual hunting activity, like searching for animals.

### --feedback--

The word `hunt` is used figuratively here, meaning a search for something.

---

It refers to a challenging or difficult search for something.

---

It means the bug was already fixed without any effort.

### --feedback--

`Quite a hunt` emphasizes that finding the bug required significant effort.

## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

In this context, the word `hunt` is used figuratively to describe a focused search for something difficult to find. For example:

- `It was a real hunt to track down that missing file.` - Finding the missing file was difficult.

- `Finding the right apartment in the city was quite a hunt.` - We looked everywhere until we found the right apartment for us in this city.

The expression `quite a/an` + noun is used to emphasize something as impressive, intense, or remarkable. For example:

- `That was quite a show!` - This sentence emphasizes how impressive the show was.
- `She gave quite an explanation.` - This sentence emphasizes that the explanation was thorough or detailed.

Here, `quite a hunt` highlights that the search for the bug was challenging, intense, and significant.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "interview-room3.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "James",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 15,
          "z": 1.2
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_2-1.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 3.26,
      "finishTimestamp": 5.34
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "James",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "James",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 3.08,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "Yes, I did. It was quite a hunt.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "James",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 3.58
    }
  ]
}
```
