---
id: 67053faa1471c916446ad615
title: Task 15
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-15
---

<!-- (Audio) James: That's when I noticed something odd. -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What did James discover when reviewing the error logs?

## --answers--

He didn't discover anything.

### --feedback--

James explicitly states that he noticed `something`, meaning he found something.

---

He discovered something.

---

He discovered a common mistake.

### --feedback--

James mentions finding `something odd`. `Odd` is different from `common`.

---

He didn't look for anything.

### --feedback--

James was actively investigating and found something during his review.

## --video-solution--

2

# --explanation--

`Something` is used in affirmative sentences to indicate that a thing exists or happened. For example:  

- `He found something unusual in the logs.` - He discovered that the logs had a different thing from the usual.

- `She noticed something during the meeting.` - One particular thing drew her attention during the meeting.

In contrast, `anything` is used in negative sentences or questions. For example:

- Negative: `He didn't find anything in the logs.` - The logs did not help him understand the problem.

- Question: `Did she notice anything during the meeting?` - You are asking if she was able to see something during the meeting.

In negative sentences with `did not` or `didn't`, the main verb remains in its base form (`find`, `notice` etc.), and `anything` is used instead of `something`.

Here, James says, `That's when I noticed something odd`, meaning he found something during his review process.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "interview-room3.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "James",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 15,
          "z": 1.2
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_2-1.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 14.24,
      "finishTimestamp": 16.12
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "James",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "James",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 2.88,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "That's when I noticed something odd.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "James",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 3.38
    }
  ]
}
```
