---
id: 67056697de96ba1ba012eb44
title: Task 42
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-42
---

# --instructions--

Fill each blank with one of the following words to add the correct sequential linkers to the text below: `After`, `Finally`, `First`, or `Then`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`BLANK, James checked the code for recent changes. BLANK, he reviewed the error logs more carefully. BLANK that, he found the bug in the database credentials. BLANK, he updated the credentials, and the app worked again.`

## --blanks--

`First`

### --feedback--

James' initial action was checking the code. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`Then`

### --feedback--

This linker indicates the immediate next action, which was reviewing the error logs. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`After`

### --feedback--

This word combined with the following makes a linker that correctly introduces a step with more separation, when James found the bug in the credentials. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`Finally`

### --feedback--

This linker indicates that updating the credentials was the last step in solving the issue. The first letter is capitalized.

# --explanation--

Sequential linkers like `first`, `then`, `after that`, and `finally` are used to describe the order of actions or events.

- `First` is used to describe the initial action.

- `Then` refers to the next immediate step.

- `After that` is used to introduce a step following another action with some distinction between them.

- `Finally` marks the last step in a sequence.
