---
id: 671775db2ecd44064fdb1f04
title: Task 67
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-67
---

<!-- (Audio) Linda: You were fixing a security issue, weren't you? -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and complete the sentence below.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`You were fixing a security issue, BLANK you?`

## --blanks--

`weren't`

### --feedback--

This word is part of a tag question using the auxiliary verb for the `Past Continuous`. It is used to confirm or seek agreement about something.

# --explanation--

`Tag questions` are short questions added to the end of a statement to confirm information or seek agreement. The structure depends on the main sentence: 

If the main sentence is positive, the tag is negative. For example: 

`You were working late, weren't you?` - You want to confirm if the other person was working late - you believe they were.

If the main sentence is negative, the tag is positive. For Example: 

`You weren't at the meeting, were you?` - You want to confirm if the person did not attend the meeting - you believe they didn't. 

In this sentence, Linda uses the tag question `weren't you?` to confirm if Jake was fixing a security issue, because she thinks he was.  

A `security issue` refers to a problem or vulnerability that could compromise the safety or protection of a system, data, or user. For example: 

`The team addressed a security issue that allowed unauthorized access.` - meaning the team had to deal with a problem in security that was giving access to people without the proper authorization.

In this context, Linda is asking about Jake's work on a specific problem related to security because she vividly remembers that was what was happening at the time.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company2-center.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Linda",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 0,
          "z": 1.4
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_2-2.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 42.2,
      "finishTimestamp": 44.3
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Linda",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Linda",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 3.1,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "You were fixing a security issue, weren't you?",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Linda",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 3.6
    }
  ]
}
```
