---
id: 671f7767854d6806ac4fb5f4
title: Task 101
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-101
---

<!-- (Audio) Maria: I missed it. I was in a design sprint workshop. -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

Why could Maria not attend the cybersecurity workshop in the morning?

## --answers--

Because she wasn't interested in the topic.

### --feedback--

Maria doesn't mention a lack of interest; she was in another workshop.

---

Because she forgot about it.

### --feedback--

Maria says she missed it because she was attending the design sprint workshop, not because she forgot.

---

Because she was in a design sprint workshop.

---

Because it was canceled.

### --feedback--

Maria explains that she missed the workshop because she was in another one, not because it was canceled.

## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

`Miss` means to fail to attend or participate in something. For example: 

`I missed the meeting because I was stuck in traffic.` - This means that you spent too long in traffic and this caused a delay to get to work. 

A `design sprint` is a time-boxed, collaborative process where a team works on solving a design problem or developing a prototype within a short period, usually a few days. For example: 

`The team completed a design sprint to test the new user interface concept.` This means the team participated in this collaborative process to test the concept. 

In this context, Maria couldn't attend the cybersecurity workshop because she was actively participating in a design sprint workshop.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "cafe.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Maria",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 0,
          "z": 1.5
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_2-3.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 44.72,
      "finishTimestamp": 47.16
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 3.44,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "I missed it. I was in a design sprint workshop.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 3.94
    }
  ]
}
```
