---
id: 674616565854f7c788740cee
title: Task 36
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-36
---

<!-- (Audio) Lisa: Did anything else come up while you were debugging? -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What does Lisa want to know?

## --answers--

She wants to know why James was debugging.

### --feedback--

Lisa's question isn't about the reason for debugging; it's about whether other issues came up during that time.

---

She wants to know when James started debugging.

### --feedback--

Lisa's question focuses on what else happened during debugging, not the timing.

---

She wants to know if any other issues appeared while James was debugging.

---

She wants to know if debugging is finished.

### --feedback--

Lisa's question is about what happened during debugging, not whether it is finished.

## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

In this question, Lisa uses the `Simple Past` and the `Past Continuous` to ask about two actions that occurred in the past.

`Did anything else come up` describes a completed action or event that may have occurred at some point during the debugging process. (`Simple Past`)

`While you were debugging`  describes an ongoing activity in the past during which the event in the Simple Past could have happened. (`Past Continuous`) For example: 

`Did anyone call while you were working on the report?` - here, the `Simple Past` tense  asks about a specific event, while the `Past Continuous` provides the background activity during which the event could have happened.

This combination is used to show the occurrence of an event in the middle of another, longer one, or simultaneous longer actions happening in the past.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "interview-room3.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Lisa",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 15,
          "z": 1.2
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_2-1.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 44.92,
      "finishTimestamp": 47.02
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Lisa",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Lisa",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 3.1,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "Did anything else come up while you were debugging?",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Lisa",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 3.6
    }
  ]
}
```
