guide/english/working-in-tech/women-in-tech/index.md, before:

---
title: Women in Tech
---

## Women In Tech

From an article on ["The Latest Stats on Women in Tech"](https://www.themuse.com/advice/the-latest-stats-on-women-in-tech),

> "We all know that there's a major gender gap when it comes to women in tech. 
>
> Although we make up the majority of the workplace and the social media sphere, we only represent a tiny percentage of the technology world.
>
> And that's reflected in some of the stats you see. For example, according to a 2011 report from the Level Playing Field Institute, 82% of men in startups believed their companies spent the 'right amount of time' addressing diversity, while almost 40% of women believed not enough time was devoted.”

![Alt text](https://www.womenwhotech.com/wp-content/uploads/infographic_700_FINAL.png "Women in Tech")

Although women are still underrepresented in the tech world it does not mean that we are not making a difference in the tech world.

In a Women in Tech Round-up event presented by Google in Austin, the Women who spoke at these events were vice presidents (VPs) and high-level management positions from profitable companies working in the tech industry. Not all of them began their careers in the tech world many had started as secretaries and other roles that are often geared towards women. They worked hard and took risks to get where they are now. The one piece of advice that seemed to resound from all of them was that for you to succeed you must take risks. 

The Google VP who spoke at this event gave us all a piece of advice: that we should take any and every opportunity afford to us and risk  applying to jobs we are not qualified for. The worst that will happen is you’ll get rejected or you won’t get an interview. Men get tech positions not because they are more experienced or better than women but because they apply to positions that they often aren’t qualified for while women only apply for jobs that they think they are qualified for. 
The worst thing you can do is to sell yourself short if you want something take that risk and achieve the impossible.

### More Information:

- [Why are there so few women in tech? The truth behind the Google memo](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2017/aug/08/why-are-there-so-few-women-in-tech-the-truth-behind-the-google-memo)
- [Ellen Pao: Has Anything Really Changed for Women in Tech?](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/16/opinion/sunday/ellen-pao-sexism-tech.html)

### A non-exhaustive list of global women in tech initiatives:

- [PyLadies](https://www.pyladies.com/)
- [R-Ladies](https://rladies.org/)
- [Django Girls](https://djangogirls.org/)
- [Rails Girls](http://railsgirls.com/)
- [Girls Who Code](https://girlswhocode.com/)
- [1 Million Women To Tech](https://1millionwomentotech.com/)
- [Women Who Code](https://www.womenwhocode.com/)

Commit message:

Added information about intersectionality
stats and quote about women of color in tech

guide/english/working-in-tech/women-in-tech/index.md, after:

---
title: Women in Tech
---

## Women In Tech

From an article on ["The Latest Stats on Women in Tech"](https://www.themuse.com/advice/the-latest-stats-on-women-in-tech),

> "We all know that there's a major gender gap when it comes to women in tech. 
>
> Although we make up the majority of the workplace and the social media sphere, we only represent a tiny percentage of the technology world.
>
> And that's reflected in some of the stats you see. For example, according to a 2011 report from the Level Playing Field Institute, 82% of men in startups believed their companies spent the 'right amount of time' addressing diversity, while almost 40% of women believed not enough time was devoted.”

This is especially true in discussions about intersectionality. According to an article MarketWatch, today, while women hold about 19% of computing degrees, women of color hold about 4%. Even more concerning is that over the past decade, the percentage of Black, Latina, and Native American women fell by almost 40%.

![Alt text](https://www.womenwhotech.com/wp-content/uploads/infographic_700_FINAL.png "Women in Tech")

Although women are still underrepresented in the tech world it does not mean that we are not making a difference in the tech world.

In a Women in Tech Round-up event presented by Google in Austin, the Women who spoke at these events were vice presidents (VPs) and high-level management positions from profitable companies working in the tech industry. Not all of them began their careers in the tech world many had started as secretaries and other roles that are often geared towards women. They worked hard and took risks to get where they are now. The one piece of advice that seemed to resound from all of them was that for you to succeed you must take risks. 

The Google VP who spoke at this event gave us all a piece of advice: that we should take any and every opportunity afford to us and risk  applying to jobs we are not qualified for. The worst that will happen is you’ll get rejected or you won’t get an interview. Men get tech positions not because they are more experienced or better than women but because they apply to positions that they often aren’t qualified for while women only apply for jobs that they think they are qualified for. 
The worst thing you can do is to sell yourself short if you want something take that risk and achieve the impossible. 

**"Do not think for one minute that because you are who you are, you cannot be who you imagine yourself to be."**    
*-Jedidah Isler in her TED talk, [The Untapped Genius That Could Change Science for the Better](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3NdSVi38RM8)*    

### More Information:

- [Why are there so few women in tech? The truth behind the Google memo](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2017/aug/08/why-are-there-so-few-women-in-tech-the-truth-behind-the-google-memo)
- [Ellen Pao: Has Anything Really Changed for Women in Tech?](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/16/opinion/sunday/ellen-pao-sexism-tech.html)
- [It's Time to Close the Gap for Women of Color in Tech](https://www.marketwatch.com/press-release/its-time-to-close-the-gap-for-women-of-color-in-tech-2018-09-13)

### A non-exhaustive list of global women in tech initiatives:

- [PyLadies](https://www.pyladies.com/)
- [R-Ladies](https://rladies.org/)
- [Django Girls](https://djangogirls.org/)
- [Rails Girls](http://railsgirls.com/)
- [Girls Who Code](https://girlswhocode.com/)
- [1 Million Women To Tech](https://1millionwomentotech.com/)
- [Women Who Code](https://www.womenwhocode.com/)
