---
id: 661215c06938a71ad4101c93
title: Task 6
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-6
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Sarah: Thanks for catching those. As for me, I also finished the market research report. I presented it to the team yesterday. We’ve gathered valuable data that will help us make informed decisions.
-->

# --description--

`To catch` can have the meaning of noticing or finding something, often a problem or mistake. Like when you say, `I caught a spelling error in the report.` Here, `caught` is the past tense of `catch`.

A `market` is a place or area where goods are sold, or in business, it refers to the group of people who might buy a product. For example, `We studied the smartphone market.`

`To gather` means to collect or bring together. In business, you might `gather` information or data, like `We gathered customer feedback.`

An `informed decision` is a choice made based on good information or knowledge. For example, `After researching, we made an informed decision about our project.`

These terms are useful in business and technology for discussing work and decision-making.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Thanks for _ those. As for me, I also finished the _ research report. I presented it to the team yesterday. We’ve _ valuable data that will help us make _ decisions.`

## --blanks--

`catching`

### --feedback--

In this context, it refers to identifying or noticing something, like issues or errors.

---

`market`

### --feedback--

It refers to the area of study or interest in business, like studying consumer trends or needs.

---

`gathered`

### --feedback--

It means collected. Here, it refers to collecting data or information.

---

`informed`

### --feedback--

It means the decisions are based on good information or knowledge.
