---
id: 6617b087df2220fcc00514ec
title: Task 21
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-21
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Sarah: We need to decide on the approach for the next phase of the project. I believe an agile methodology is the way to go.
-->

# --description--

An `agile methodology` is a way of managing a project by breaking it into several phases. Instead of planning everything at the beginning and following a strict schedule, the team works on small parts of the project for a short time, reviews the work, and then decides what to do next based on what they learned. This approach allows the team to adapt to changes quickly, make improvements along the way, and work closely with stakeholders for continuous improvement at every stage.

For example, `Using agile methodology, we can adjust the project quickly based on feedback.`

The phrase `way to go` means a good or correct choice or decision. For instance, `Choosing to focus on customer service was the way to go` means it was a good decision.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`We need to decide on the _ for the next phase of the project. I believe an _ methodology is the _ to go.`

## --blanks--

`approach`

### --feedback--

It refers to the method or strategy to be used for the next phase of the project.

---

`agile`

### --feedback--

It describes the type of methodology managing a project by breaking it up into small parts; Sarah believes it would be effective for the project.

---

`way`

### --feedback--

It indicates Sarah's opinion that agile methodology is a good choice for the project.
