---
id: 69976b13f7e759b04c45cb98
title: Grammar Highlights
challengeType: 24
dashedName: grammar-highlights
lang: es
---

<!-- GRAMMAR HIGHLIGHTS -->

# --description--

## Verb Conjugation

### The Verb `Ser`

| Person | Conjugation |
| :--- | :--- |
| **1st** | Yo soy |
| **2nd** | Tú eres |
| **3rd** | Él/Ella es |

For example:

- `¿Es de Brasil?` – Is he/she from Brazil?

- `Es diseñador gráfico.` – He is a graphic designer.

<br>

### The Verb `Tener`

| Person | Conjugation |
| :--- | :--- |
| **1st** | Yo tengo |
| **2nd** | Tú tienes |
| **3rd** | Él/Ella tiene |

For example:

- `¿Qué edad tiene?` – How old is he/she?

- `Tiene veintiséis años.` – He/She is twenty-six years old.

<br>

### The Verb `Vivir`

| Person | Conjugation |
| :--- | :--- |
| **1st** | Yo vivo |
| **2nd** | Tú vives |
| **3rd** | Él/Ella vive |

For example:

- `¿Dónde vive Valeria?` – Where does Valeria live?

- `Vive en Medellín.` – He/She lives in Medellín.

<br>

### The Verb `Gustar`

| Person | Conjugation |
| :--- | :--- |
| **1st** | Me gusta |
| **2nd** | Te gusta |
| **3rd** | Le gusta |

For example:

- `Le gusta crear ideas.` – He/She likes to create ideas.

- `¿Qué le gusta?` – What does he/she like?

<br>

### The Verb `Llamarse`

| Person | Conjugation |
| :--- | :--- |
| **1st** | Yo me llamo |
| **2nd** | Tú te llamas |
| **3rd** | Él/Ella se llama |

For example:

- `¿Cómo se llama tu colega?` – What is your colleague's name?

- `Se llama Diego.` – His name is Diego.

<br>

### The Verb `Trabajar`

| Person | Conjugation |
| :--- | :--- |
| **1st** | Yo trabajo |
| **2nd** | Tú trabajas trabaja |
| **3rd** | Él/Ella trabaja |

For example:

- `¿Dónde trabaja?` – Where does he/she work?

- `Trabaja en la oficina.` – He/She works in the office.

<br>

## Words with Accent Marks

These words that you learned in this section have accent marks in Spanish:

- `Andrés`

- `¿Cómo?`

- `¿Cuál?`

- `¿Dónde?`

- `Él`

- `Electrónico`

- `Gráfico`

- `Joaquín`

- `Medellín`

- `Méndez`

- `México`

- `Número`

- `Panamá`

- `República`

- `Sí`*

- `Teléfono`

- `Veintiséis`

- `Vélez`

(* Only when this word should mean "yes" in the given context.)

<br>

## `Él` vs. `El`

In Spanish, accent marks are very important. They can change the entire meaning of a word.

- **Él** is a pronoun. It means "He".

- **El** is an article. It means "The".

For example:

- `Él es mi colega.` – He is my colleague.

- `El libro es verde.` – The book is green.

<br>

## `Sí` vs `Si`

In Spanish, `sí` and `si` are very different. 

The accent mark on the letter **i** changes the function of the word.

- **Sí** means **"yes"**. It's used to answer a question or confirm something.

- **Si** means **"if"**. It's used to set a condition.

For example:

- `Sí, se llama Gino.` – Yes, his name is Gino.

- `Si llueve mañana, no voy de compras.` – If it rains tomorrow, I won't go shopping.

<br>

## Nationalities

Nationalities are **not** capitalized in Spanish unless in certain cases where they start a sentence. For example:

`Soy uruguaya` - I'm Uruguayan.

# --assignment--

I confirm I read the Grammar Highlights.
