---
id: 671a9a0a140c2b9d6a75629f
title: CSS Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-css
---

# --description--

Review the concepts below to prepare for the upcoming exam.

## CSS Basics

- **What is CSS?**: Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) is a markup language used to apply styles to HTML elements. CSS is used for colors, background images, layouts and more.
- **Basic Anatomy of a CSS Rule**: A CSS rule is made up of two main parts: a selector and a declaration block. A selector is a pattern used in CSS to identify and target specific HTML elements for styling. A declaration block applies a set of styles for a given selector, or selectors.
- **`meta name="viewport"` Element**: This `meta` element gives the browser instructions on how to control the page's dimensions and scaling on different devices, particularly on mobile phones and tablets.
- **Default Browser Styles**: Each HTML element will have default browser styles applied to them. This usually includes items like default margins and paddings.

## Inline, Internal, and External CSS

- **Inline CSS**: These styles are written directly within an HTML element using the `style` attribute. Most of the time you will not be using inline CSS due to separation of concerns. 
- **Internal CSS**: These styles are written within the `<style>` tags inside the `<head>` section of an HTML document. This can be useful for creating short code examples, but usually you will not need be using internal CSS.
- **External CSS**: These styles are written in a separate CSS file and linked to the HTML document using the `<link>` element in the `<head>` section. For most projects, you will use an external CSS file over internal or inline CSS.

## Working With the `width` and `height` Properties

- **`width` Property**: This property specifies the width of an element. If you do not specify a width, then the default is set to `auto`. This means the element will take up the full width of its parent container.
- **`min-width` Property**: This property specifies the minimum width for an element.
- **`max-width` Property**: This property specifies the maximum width for an element.
- **`height` Property**: This property specifies the height of an element. Similarly, the height is `auto` by default, which means it will adjust to the content inside.
- **`min-height` Property**: This property specifies the minimum height for an element.
- **`max-height` Property**: This property specifies the maximum height for an element.

## Different Types of CSS Combinators

- **Descendant Combinator**: This combinator is used to target elements that are descendants of a specified parent element. The following example will target all `li` items inside `ul` elements.
- **Child Combinator (`>`)**: This combinator is used to select elements that are direct children of a specified parent element. The following example will target all `p` elements that are direct children of the `container` class.
- **Next-sibling Combinator (`+`)**: This combinator selects an element that immediately follows a specified sibling element. The following example will select the paragraph element that immediately follow the `h2` element.

- **Subsequent-sibling Combinator (`~`)**: This combinator selects all siblings of a specified element that come after it. The following example will style only the second paragraph element because it is the only one that is a sibling of the `ul` element and share the same parent.

## Inline, Block, and Inline-Block Level Elements

- **Inline Level Elements**: Inline elements only take up as much width as they need and do not start on a new line. These elements flow within the content, allowing text and other inline elements to appear alongside them. Common inline elements are `span`, `anchor`, and `img` elements.
- **Block Level Elements**: Block level elements that take up the full width available to them by default, stretching across the width of their container. Some common block-level elements are `div`, `paragraph`, and `section` elements.
- **Inline-Block Level Elements**: You can set an element to `inline-block` by using the `display` property. These elements behave like inline elements but can have a `width` and `height` set like block-level elements. 

## Margin and Padding

- **`margin` Property**: This property is used to apply space outside the element, between the element's border and the surrounding elements.
- **`padding` Property**: This property is used to apply space inside the element, between the content and its border.

## CSS Specificity

- **Inline CSS Specificity**: Inline CSS has the highest specificity because it is applied directly to the element. It overrides any internal or external CSS. The specificity value for inline styles is (1, 0, 0, 0).
- **Internal CSS Specificity**: Internal CSS is defined within a `<style>` element in the `<head>` section of the HTML document. It has lower specificity than inline styles but can override external styles.
- **External CSS Specificity**: External CSS is linked via a `<link>` element in the `<head>` section and is written in separate `.css` files. It has the lowest specificity but provides the best maintainability for larger projects. 
- **Universal Selector (`*`)**: a special type of CSS selector that matches any element in the document. It is often used to apply a style to all elements on the page, which can be useful for resetting or normalizing styles across different browsers. The universal selector has the lowest specificity value of any selector. It contributes 0 to all parts of the specificity value (0, 0, 0, 0). 
- **Type Selectors**: These selectors target elements based on their tag name. Type selectors have a relatively low specificity compared to other selectors. The specificity value for a type selector is (0, 0, 0, 1). 
- **Class Selectors**: These selectors are defined by a period (`.`) followed by the class name. The specificity value for a class selector is (0, 0, 1, 0). This means that class selectors can override type selectors, but they can be overridden by ID selectors and inline styles.
- **ID Selectors**: ID selectors are defined by a hash symbol (#) followed by the ID name. ID selectors have a very high specificity, higher than type selectors and class selectors, but lower than inline styles. The specificity value for an ID selector is (0, 1, 0, 0). 
- **`!important` keyword**: used to give a style rule the highest priority, allowing it to override any other declarations for a property. When used, it forces the browser to apply the specified style, regardless of the specificity of other selectors. You should be cautious when using `!important` because it can make your CSS harder to maintain and debug.
- **Cascade Algorithm**: An algorithm used to decide which CSS rules to apply when there are multiple styles targeting the same element. It ensures that the most appropriate styles are used, based on a set of well-defined rules.
- **CSS Inheritance**: The process by which styles are passed down from parent elements to their children. Inheritance allows you to define styles at a higher level in the document tree and have them apply to multiple elements without explicitly specifying them for each element.

## Design Terminology

- **Layout**: This is how visual elements are arranged on a page or screen to communicate a message. These elements may include text, images, and white space.
- **Alignment**: This is how the elements are placed in relation to one another. Using alignment correctly is helpful for making the design look clean and organized.
- **Composition**: This is the act of arranging elements to create a harmonious design. It determines how elements like images, text, and shapes relate to each other and contribute to the design in an artistic way.
- **Balance**: This is how visual weight is distributed within a composition. Designers aim to create an equilibrium through symmetrical or asymmetrical arrangements.
- **Scale**: This refers to comparing the dimensions or size of one element to that of another.
- **Hierarchy**: This establishes the order of importance of the elements in a design. It's about making sure that the most important information is noticed first. 
- **Contrast**: This is the process of creating clear distinctions between the elements. You can do this through variations in color, size, shape, texture, or any other visual characteristic. Strong contrast is also helpful for improving readability.
- **White Space(negative space)**: This is the empty space in a design. It's the area surrounding the elements.
- **UI(User Interface)**: UI includes the visual and interactive elements that users can see on their screens, like icons, images, text, menus, links, and buttons.
- **UX(User Experience)**: UX is about how users feel when using a product or service. An application with a well-design user experience is intuitive, easy to use, efficient, accessible, and enjoyable.
- **Design Brief**: This is a document that outlines the objectives, goals, and requirements of a project. It is a roadmap that guides the design process and ensures that the final product meets the needs of the client.
- **Vector Based Design**: This involves creating digital art using mathematical formulas to define lines, shapes, and colors.
- **Prototyping**: This refers to the process of creating an interactive model of a product or user interface.

## UI Design Fundamentals

- **Good Contrast for Background and Foreground Colors**: It is important to ensure that the background and foreground colors have good contrast to make the text readable. The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) recommend a minimum contrast ratio of 4.5:1 for normal text and 3:1 for large text.
- **Good Visual Hierarchy in Design**: A strong visual hierarchy can provide a clear path for the eye to follow, ensuring that the information you convey is consumed in the order that you intend.
- **Responsive Images**: Responsive images are images that scale to fit the size of the screen they are being viewed on. This is important because it ensures that your images look good on all devices, from desktops to mobile phones.
- **Progressive Enhancement**: This is a design approach that ensures all users, regardless of browser or device, can access the essential content and functionality of an application. 
- **User-centered Design**: This is an approach that prioritizes the end user, from their needs to their preferences and limitations. The goal of user-centered design is to craft a web page that is intuitive, efficient to use, and pleasing for your users to interact with.
- **User Research**: This is the systematic study of the people who use your product. The goal is to measure user needs, behaviors, and pain points.
- **User Testing**: This refers to the practice of capturing data from users as they interface with your application.
- **A/B Testing**: This is the process of shipping a new feature to a randomly selected subset of your user base. You can then leverage analytics data to determine if the feature is beneficial.
- **User Requirements**: This refers to the stories or rubric that your application needs to follow. User requirements might be defined by user research, or industry standards. They can even be defined by stakeholder input.
- **Progressive Disclosure**: This is a design pattern used to only show users relevant content based on their current activity and hide the rest. This is done to reduce cognitive load and make the user experience more intuitive.
- **Deferred/Lazy Registration**: This is a UI design pattern that allows users to browse and interact with your application without having to register.

## Design Best Practices

- **Dark Mode**: This is a special feature on web applications where you can change the default light color scheme to a dark color scheme. You should use desaturated colors in dark mode. Desaturated colors are colors that are less intense and have a lower saturation level.
- **Breadcrumbs**: This is a navigation aid that shows the user where they are in the site's hierarchy. It is best to place breadcrumbs at the top of the page so users can easily find it. Also, you want to make sure the breadcrumbs are large enough to be easily read, but not so large that they take up too much space on the page.
- **Card Component**: Your card component should be simple in design, not visually cluttered or display too much information. For media, make sure to choose high-quality images and videos to enhance the user experience.
- **Infinite Scroll**: This is a design pattern that loads more content as the user scrolls down the page. You should consider using a load more button because it gives a user control over when they want to see more content. You can also add a back button so users have the ability to go back to the previous page without having to scroll all the way back up. 
- **Modal Dialog**: This is a type of pop-up that will show display on top of existing page content. Usually the background content will have a dim color overlay in order to help the user better focus on the modal content. Also, it is always a good idea to allow the user to click outside of the modal to close it. When you use the HTML `dialog` element, you will get a lot of the functionality and accessibility benefits built in.
- **Progress Indication for Form Registration**: This is a way to show users how far they are in a process. It can be used in forms, registration, and setup processes. Your design should be simple, easy to find, and make it possible to go back to previous steps.
- **Shopping Cart**: Carts are a place for user to see what item they have already selected on an e-commerce platform. Your carts should always be visible to the user, use a common icon like a cart, bag or basket, and have a clear call-to-action button for users to proceed to checkout.

## Common Design Tools

- **Figma**: This cloud-based tool specializes in User Interface and User Experience (UI / UX) design. It enables design and development teams to collaborate from anywhere, offering built-in features including Vector-based design, automatic layout, a commenting and feedback system and more.
- **Sketch**: This is a popular design tool used for its intuitive interface and simplicity, making it ideal for developers who want to quickly create prototypes. It's also widely used by designers for tasks like creating UIs, icons, and web layouts.
- **Adobe XD**: This is a vector-based design and prototyping tool for UI/UX design, known for its seamless integration with other Adobe apps like Photoshop, Illustrator, and After Effects.
- **Canva**: This tool allows you to create a wide range of visual content, including posters, cover photos, presentations, short videos, and more. Its user-friendly and simple design makes it ideal for beginners.

## Absolute Units

- **`px` (Pixels)**: This absolute unit is a fixed-size unit of measurement in CSS, providing precise control over dimensions. This means that 1px is always equal to 1/96th of an inch.
- **`in` (Inch)**: This absolute unit is equal to 96px.
- **`cm` (Centimeters)**: This absolute unit is equal to 25.2/64 of an inch.
- **`mm` (Millimeters)**: This absolute unit is equal to 1/10th of a centimeter.
- **`q` (Quarter-Millimeters)**: This absolute unit is equal to 1/40th of a centimeter.
- **`pc` (Picas)**: This absolute unit is equal to 1/6th of an inch.
- **`pt` (Points)**: This absolute unit is equal to 1/72th of an inch.

## Relative Units

- **Percentages**: These relative units allow you to define sizes, dimensions, and other properties as a proportion of their parent element. For example, if you set `width: 50%;` on an element, it will occupy half the width of its parent container. 
- **`em` Unit**: These units are relative to the font size of the element. If you are using `ems` for the `font-size` property, the size of the text will be relative to the font size of the parent element.
- **`rem` Unit**: These units are relative to the font size of the root element, which is the `html` element. 
- **`vh` Unit**: `vh` stands for `"viewport height"` and `1vh` is equal to 1% of the viewport's height.
- **`vw` Unit**: `vw` stands for `"viewport width"` and `1vw` is equal to 1% of the viewport's width.

## `calc` Function

- **`calc()` Function**: With the `calc()` function, you can perform calculations directly within your stylesheets to determine property values dynamically. This means that you can create flexible and responsive user interfaces by calculating dimensions based on the viewport size or other elements.

## User Action Pseudo-classes

- **Pseudo-classes Definition**: These are special CSS keywords that allow you to select an element based on its specific state or position.
- **User Action Pseudo-classes**: These are special keywords that allow you to change the appearance of elements based on user interactions, improving the overall user experience.
- **`:active` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class lets you select the active state of an element, like clicking on a button.
- **`:hover` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class defines the hover state of an element.
- **`:focus` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class applies styles when an element gains focus, typically through keyboard navigation or when a user clicks into a form input.
- **`:focus-within` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class is used to apply styles to an element when it or any of its descendants have focus.

## Input Pseudo-classes

- **Input Pseudo-classes**: These pseudo-classes are used to target HTML `input` elements based on the state they are in before and after user interaction.
- **`:enabled` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class is used to target form buttons or other elements that are currently enabled.
- **`:disabled` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class lets you style an interactive element in disabled mode.
- **`:checked` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class is used to indicate to the user that it is checked.
- **`:valid` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class targets the input fields that meet the validation criteria.
- **`:invalid` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class targets the input fields that do not meet the validation criteria.
- **`:in-range` and `:out-of-range` Pseudo-classes**: These pseudo-classes applies styles to elements based on whether their values are within or outside specified range constraints.
- **`:required` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class targets `input` elements that have the `required` attribute. It signals to the user that they must fill out the field to submit the form.
- **`:optional` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class applies styles input elements that are not required and can be left empty.
- **`:autofill` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class applies styles to input fields that the browser automatically fills with saved data.

## Location Pseudo-classes

- **Location Pseudo-classes**: These pseudo-classes are used for styling links and elements that are targeted within the current document.
- **`:any-link` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class is a combination of the :link and :visited pseudo-classes. So, it matches any anchor element with an href attribute, regardless of whether it’s visited or not.
- **`:link` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class allows you to target all unvisited links on a webpage. You can use it to style links differently before the user clicks on them.
- **`:local-link` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class targets links that point to the same document. It can be useful when you want to differentiate internal links from external ones.
- **`:visited` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class targets a link the user has visited. 
- **`:target` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class is used to apply styles to an element that is the target of a URL fragment 

## Tree-structural Pseudo-classes

- **Tree-structural Pseudo-classes**: These pseudo-classes allow you to target and style elements based on their position within the document tree. 
- **`:root` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class is usually the root `<html>` element. It helps you target the highest level in the document so you can apply a common style to the entire document.        
- **`:empty` Pseudo-class**: Empty elements, that is, elements with no children other than white space, are also included in the document tree. That's why there's an `:empty` pseudo-class to target empty elements.
- **`:nth-child(n)` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class allows you to select elements based on their position within a parent.
- **`:nth-last-child(n)` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class enables you to select elements by counting from the end.
- **`:first-child` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class selects the first element in a parent element or the document.
- **`:last-child` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class selects the last element in a parent element or the document
- **`:only-child` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class selects the only element in a parent element or the document
- **`:first-of-type` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class selects the first occurrence of a specific element type within its parent.
- **`:last-of-type` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class selects the last occurrence of a specific element type within its parent.
- **`:nth-of-type(n)` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class allows you to select a specific element within its parent based on its position among siblings of the same type.
- **`:only-of-type` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class selects an element if it's the only one of its type within its parent. 


## Functional Pseudo-classes

- **Functional Pseudo-classes**: Functional pseudo-classes allow you to select elements based on more complex conditions or relationships. Unlike regular pseudo-classes which target elements based on a state (for example, :hover, :focus), functional pseudo-classes accept arguments.
- **`:is()` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class takes a list of selectors (ex. `ol`, `ul`) and selects an element that matches one of the selectors in the list.
- **`:where()` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class takes a list of selectors (ex. `ol`, `ul`) and selects an element that matches one of the selectors in the list. The difference between `:is` and `:where` is that the latter will have a specificity of 0.
- **`:has()` Pseudo-class**: This pseudo-class is often dubbed the `"parent"` selector because it allows you to style elements who contain child elements specified in the selector list.

## Pseudo-elements 

- **`::before` Pseudo-element**: This pseudo-element uses the `content` property to insert cosmetic content like icons just before the element.
- **`::after` Pseudo-element**: This pseudo-element uses the `content` property to insert cosmetic content like icons just after the element.
- **`::first-letter` Pseudo-element**: This pseudo-element targets the first letter of an element's content, allowing you to style it.
- **`::marker` Pseudo-element**: This pseudo-element lets you select the marker (bullet or numbering) of list items for styling.


## Color Theory

- **Color Theory Definition**: This is the study of how colors interact with each other and how they affect our perception. It covers color relationships, color harmony, and the psychological impact of color.
- **Primary Colors**: These colors which are yellow, blue, and red, are the fundamental hues from which all other colors are derived.
- **Secondary Colors**: These colors result from mixing equal amounts of two primary colors. Green, orange, and purple are examples of secondary colors.
- **Tertiary Colors**: These colors result from combining a primary color with a neighboring secondary color. Yellow-Green, Blue-Green, and Blue-Violet, are examples of tertiary colors.
- **Warm Colors**: These colors which include reds, oranges, and yellows, evoke feelings of comfort, warmth, and coziness.
- **Cool Colors**: These colors which include blues, green, and purples, evoke feelings of calmness, serenity, and professionalism.
- **Color Wheel**: The color wheel is a circular diagram that shows how colors relate to each other. It's an essential tool for designers because it helps them to select color combinations.
- **Analogous Color Schemes**: These color schemes create cohesive and soothing experiences. They have analogous colors, which are adjacent to each other in the color wheel.
- **Complementary Color Schemes**: These color schemes create high contrast and visual impact. Their colors are located on the opposite ends of the color wheel, relative to each other.
- **Triadic Color Scheme**: This color scheme has vibrant colors. They are made from colors that are approximately equidistant from each other. If they are connected, they form an equilateral triangle on the color wheel, like you can see in this example.
- **Monochromatic Color Scheme**: For this color scheme, all the colors are derived from the same base color by adjusting its lightness, darkness, and saturation. This evokes a feeling of unity and harmony while still creating contrast.

## Different Ways to Work with Colors in CSS

- **Named Colors**: These colors are predefined color names recognized by browsers. Examples include `blue`, `darkred`, `lightgreen`.
- **`rgb()` Function**: RGB stands for Red, Green, and Blue — the primary colors of light. These three colors are combined in different intensities to create a wide range of colors. the `rgb()` function allows you to define colors using the RGB color model.
- **`rgba()` Function**: This function adds a fourth value —alpha— that controls the transparency of the color. 
- **`hsl()` Function**: HSL stands for Hue, Saturation, and Lightness — three key components that define a color. 
- **`hsla()` Function**: This function adds a fourth value -alpha- that controls the opacity of the color.
- **Hexadecimal**: A hex code (short for hexadecimal code) is a six-character string used to represent colors in the RGB color model. The "hex" refers to the base-16 numbering system, which uses digits 0 to 9 and letters A to F. 

## Linear and Radial Gradients 

- **Linear Gradients**: These gradients create a gradual blend between colors along a straight line. You can control the direction of this line and the colors used. 
- **Radial Gradients**: These gradients create circular or elliptical gradients that radiate from a central point.

## Best Practices for Styling Inputs

- **Styling Inputs**: As with all text elements, you need to ensure the styles you apply to text inputs are accessible. This means the font needs to be adequately sized, and the color needs to have sufficient contrast with the background. Input elements are also focusable. When you are editing your styles, you should take care that you preserve a noticeable indicator when the element has focus, such as a bold border.

## Using `appearance: none` for Inputs

- **`appearance: none`**: Browsers apply default styling to a lot of elements. The `appearance: none` CSS property gives you complete control over the styling, but comes with some caveats. When building custom styles for input elements, you will need to make sure focus and error indicators are still present.

## Commons Issues Styling `datetime-local` and `color` Properties

- **Common Issues**: These special types of inputs rely on complex pseudo-elements to create things like the date and color pickers. This presents a significant challenge for styling these inputs. One challenge is that the default styling is entirely browser-dependent, so the CSS you write to make the picker look the way you intend may be entirely different on another browser.

## CSS Overflow Property 

- **Definition**: Overflow refers to the way elements handle content that exceeds, or "overflows", the size of the containing element. Overflow is two-dimensional. 
- **`overflow-x`**: The x-axis determines horizontal overflow.
- **`overflow-y`**: the y-axis determines vertical overflow.

## CSS Transform Property

- **Definition**: This property enables you to apply various transformations to elements, such as rotating, scaling, skewing, or translating (moving) them in 2D or 3D space.
- **`translate()` Function**: This function is used to move an element from its current position. 
- **`scale()` function**: This function allows you to change the size of an element. 
- **Transforms and Accessibility**: If you're using transform to hide or reveal content, make sure that the content is still accessible to screen readers and keyboard navigation. Hidden content should be truly hidden, such as by using `display: none` or `visibility: hidden`, rather than simply being visually moved off-screen.

## The Box Model

- **Definition**: In the CSS box model, every element is surrounded by a box. This box consists of four components: the content area, `padding`, `border`, `margin`.
- **Content Area**: The content area is the innermost part of the box. It's the space that contains the actual content of an element, like text or images.
- **`padding`**: The padding is the area immediately after the content area. It's the space between the content area and the border of an element. 
- **`border`**: The border is the outer edge or outline of an element in the CSS box model. It's the visual boundary of the element. 
- **`margin`**: The margin is the space outside the border of an element. It determines the distance between an element and other elements around it.

## Margin Collapse

- **Definition**: This behavior occurs when the vertical margins of adjacent elements overlap, resulting in a single margin equal to the larger of the two. This behavior applies only to vertical margins (top and bottom), not horizontal margins (left and right).

## The `content-box` and `border-box` Property Values

- **`box-sizing` Property**: This property is used to determine on the final `width` and `height` is calculated for an HTML element.
- **`content-box` Value**: In the `content-box` model, the `width` and `height` that you set for an element determine the dimensions of the content area but they don't include the `padding`, `border`, or `margin`.
- **`border-box` Value**: With `border-box`, the `width` and `height` of an element include the content area, the `padding`, and the `border`, but they don't include the `margin`.

## CSS Reset

- **Definition**: A CSS reset is a stylesheet that removes all or some of the default formatting that web browsers apply to HTML elements. Third party options for CSS resets include `sanitize.css` and `normalize.css`.

## CSS Filter Property 

- **Definition**: This property can be used to create various effects such as blurring, color shifting, and contrast adjustment.
- **`blur()` Function**: This function applies a Gaussian blur to the element. The amount is defined in pixels and represents the radius of the blur.
- **`brightness()` Function**: This function adjusts the brightness of the element. A value of 0% will make the element completely black, while values over 100% will increase the brightness.
- **`grayscale()` Function**: This function converts the element to grayscale. The amount is defined as a percentage, where 100% is completely grayscale and 0% leaves the image unchanged.
- **`sepia()` Function**: This function applies a sepia tone to the element. Like grayscale, it uses a percentage value.
- **`hue-rotate()` Function**: This function applies a hue rotation to the element. The value is defined in degrees and represents a rotation around the color circle.




# --assignment--

Review the CSS topics and concepts.
