guide/english/algorithms/graph-algorithms/depth-first-search/index.md, before:

---
title: Depth First Search (DFS)
---
## Depth First Search (DFS)

Depth First Search is one of the most simple graph algorithms. It traverses the graph by first checking the current node and then moving to one of its sucessors to repeat the process. If the current node has no sucessor to check, we move back to its predecessor and the process continues (by moving to another sucessor). If the solution is found the search stops.


### Visualisation

![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/7f/Depth-First-Search.gif)

### Implementation (C++14)

 ```c++
#include <iostream> 
#include <vector> 
#include <queue>  
#include <algorithm>
 using namespace std; 
  
class Graph{ 
    int v;    // number of vertices 
  
    // pointer to a vector containing adjacency lists 
    vector < int > *adj;
public: 
    Graph(int v);  // Constructor 
  
    // function to add an edge to graph 
    void add_edge(int v, int w);  
  
    // prints dfs traversal from a given source `s` 
    void dfs();
    void dfs_util(int s, vector < bool> &visited);   
}; 
  
Graph::Graph(int v){ 
    this -> v = v; 
    adj = new vector < int >[v]; 
} 
  
void Graph::add_edge(int u, int v){ 
    adj[u].push_back(v); // add v to u’s list
    adj[v].push_back(v);  // add u to v's list (remove this statement if the graph is directed!)
} 
 void Graph::dfs(){
    // visited vector - to keep track of nodes visited during DFS
    vector < bool > visited(v, false);  // marking all nodes/vertices as not visited
    for(int i = 0; i < v; i++)
        if(!visited[i])
            dfs_util(i, visited);
} 
 // notice the usage of call-by-reference here!
void Graph::dfs_util(int s, vector < bool > &visited){ 
    // mark the current node/vertex as visited
    visited[s] = true;
     // output it to the standard output (screen)
    cout << s << " ";
    
    // traverse its adjacency list and recursively call dfs_util for all of its neighbours!
    // (only if the neighbour has not been visited yet!)
    for(vector < int > :: iterator itr = adj[s].begin(); itr != adj[s].end(); itr++)
        if(!visited[*itr])
            dfs_util(*itr, visited); 
} 
  
int main() 
{ 
    // create a graph using the Graph class we defined above
    Graph g(4); 
    g.add_edge(0, 1); 
    g.add_edge(0, 2); 
    g.add_edge(1, 2); 
    g.add_edge(2, 0); 
    g.add_edge(2, 3); 
    g.add_edge(3, 3); 
  
    cout << "Following is the Depth First Traversal of the provided graph"
         << "(starting from vertex 0): "; 
    g.dfs(); 
    // output would be: 0 1 2 3
    return 0; 
} 
```


### Evaluation

Space Complexity: O(n)

Worse Case Time Complexity: O(n)
Depth First Search is complete on a finite set of nodes. I works better on shallow trees.

### Implementation of DFS in C++
```c++
#include<iostream>
#include<vector>
#include<queue>

using namespace std;

struct Graph{
	int v;
	bool **adj;
	public:
		Graph(int vcount);
		void addEdge(int u,int v);
		void deleteEdge(int u,int v);
		vector<int> DFS(int s);
		void DFSUtil(int s,vector<int> &dfs,vector<bool> &visited);
};
Graph::Graph(int vcount){
	this->v = vcount;
	this->adj=new bool*[vcount];
	for(int i=0;i<vcount;i++)
		this->adj[i]=new bool[vcount];
	for(int i=0;i<vcount;i++)
		for(int j=0;j<vcount;j++)
			adj[i][j]=false;
}

void Graph::addEdge(int u,int w){
	this->adj[u][w]=true;
	this->adj[w][u]=true;
}

void Graph::deleteEdge(int u,int w){
	this->adj[u][w]=false;
	this->adj[w][u]=false;
}

void Graph::DFSUtil(int s, vector<int> &dfs, vector<bool> &visited){
	visited[s]=true;
	dfs.push_back(s);
	for(int i=0;i<this->v;i++){
		if(this->adj[s][i]==true && visited[i]==false)
			DFSUtil(i,dfs,visited);
	}
}

vector<int> Graph::DFS(int s){
	vector<bool> visited(this->v);
	vector<int> dfs;
	DFSUtil(s,dfs,visited);
	return dfs;
}
```

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->

<a href='https://github.com/freecodecamp/guides/computer-science/data-structures/graphs/index.md' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Graphs</a>

<a href='https://github.com/freecodecamp/guides/tree/master/src/pages/algorithms/graph-algorithms/breadth-first-search/index.md' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Breadth First Search (BFS)</a>




[Depth First Search (DFS) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Depth-first_search)

Commit message:

Added Sudo Code for DFS

guide/english/algorithms/graph-algorithms/depth-first-search/index.md, after:

---
title: Depth First Search (DFS)
---
## Depth First Search (DFS)

Depth First Search is one of the most simple graph algorithms. It traverses the graph by first checking the current node and then moving to one of its sucessors to repeat the process. If the current node has no sucessor to check, we move back to its predecessor and the process continues (by moving to another sucessor). If the solution is found the search stops.


### Visualisation

![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/7f/Depth-First-Search.gif)

### Sudo Code

1. Initialize all vertices to mark as unvisited(ready state).

2. Select an arbitrary vertex, and push it to stack(wait state).

3. Repeat step #4 through step #5 until the stack is empty.

4. Pop off an element from the stack. Process and mark it as visited(processed).

5. Push to stack adjacent vertices of the processed vertex. Go to step #3.

### Implementation (C++14)

 ```c++
#include <iostream> 
#include <vector> 
#include <queue>  
#include <algorithm>
 using namespace std; 
  
class Graph{ 
    int v;    // number of vertices 
  
    // pointer to a vector containing adjacency lists 
    vector < int > *adj;
public: 
    Graph(int v);  // Constructor 
  
    // function to add an edge to graph 
    void add_edge(int v, int w);  
  
    // prints dfs traversal from a given source `s` 
    void dfs();
    void dfs_util(int s, vector < bool> &visited);   
}; 
  
Graph::Graph(int v){ 
    this -> v = v; 
    adj = new vector < int >[v]; 
} 
  
void Graph::add_edge(int u, int v){ 
    adj[u].push_back(v); // add v to u’s list
    adj[v].push_back(v);  // add u to v's list (remove this statement if the graph is directed!)
} 
 void Graph::dfs(){
    // visited vector - to keep track of nodes visited during DFS
    vector < bool > visited(v, false);  // marking all nodes/vertices as not visited
    for(int i = 0; i < v; i++)
        if(!visited[i])
            dfs_util(i, visited);
} 
 // notice the usage of call-by-reference here!
void Graph::dfs_util(int s, vector < bool > &visited){ 
    // mark the current node/vertex as visited
    visited[s] = true;
     // output it to the standard output (screen)
    cout << s << " ";
    
    // traverse its adjacency list and recursively call dfs_util for all of its neighbours!
    // (only if the neighbour has not been visited yet!)
    for(vector < int > :: iterator itr = adj[s].begin(); itr != adj[s].end(); itr++)
        if(!visited[*itr])
            dfs_util(*itr, visited); 
} 
  
int main() 
{ 
    // create a graph using the Graph class we defined above
    Graph g(4); 
    g.add_edge(0, 1); 
    g.add_edge(0, 2); 
    g.add_edge(1, 2); 
    g.add_edge(2, 0); 
    g.add_edge(2, 3); 
    g.add_edge(3, 3); 
  
    cout << "Following is the Depth First Traversal of the provided graph"
         << "(starting from vertex 0): "; 
    g.dfs(); 
    // output would be: 0 1 2 3
    return 0; 
} 
```


### Evaluation

Space Complexity: O(n)

Worse Case Time Complexity: O(n)
Depth First Search is complete on a finite set of nodes. I works better on shallow trees.

### Implementation of DFS in C++
```c++
#include<iostream>
#include<vector>
#include<queue>

using namespace std;

struct Graph{
	int v;
	bool **adj;
	public:
		Graph(int vcount);
		void addEdge(int u,int v);
		void deleteEdge(int u,int v);
		vector<int> DFS(int s);
		void DFSUtil(int s,vector<int> &dfs,vector<bool> &visited);
};
Graph::Graph(int vcount){
	this->v = vcount;
	this->adj=new bool*[vcount];
	for(int i=0;i<vcount;i++)
		this->adj[i]=new bool[vcount];
	for(int i=0;i<vcount;i++)
		for(int j=0;j<vcount;j++)
			adj[i][j]=false;
}

void Graph::addEdge(int u,int w){
	this->adj[u][w]=true;
	this->adj[w][u]=true;
}

void Graph::deleteEdge(int u,int w){
	this->adj[u][w]=false;
	this->adj[w][u]=false;
}

void Graph::DFSUtil(int s, vector<int> &dfs, vector<bool> &visited){
	visited[s]=true;
	dfs.push_back(s);
	for(int i=0;i<this->v;i++){
		if(this->adj[s][i]==true && visited[i]==false)
			DFSUtil(i,dfs,visited);
	}
}

vector<int> Graph::DFS(int s){
	vector<bool> visited(this->v);
	vector<int> dfs;
	DFSUtil(s,dfs,visited);
	return dfs;
}
```

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->

<a href='https://github.com/freecodecamp/guides/computer-science/data-structures/graphs/index.md' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Graphs</a>

<a href='https://github.com/freecodecamp/guides/tree/master/src/pages/algorithms/graph-algorithms/breadth-first-search/index.md' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Breadth First Search (BFS)</a>




[Depth First Search (DFS) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Depth-first_search)
