guide/english/bootstrap/fontawesome-icons/index.md, before:

---
title: Fontawesome Icons For Bootstrap
---
## Fontawesome Icons For Bootstrap

Bootstrap (from version 4 onwards) have dropped Glyphicon icons font in their latest release. 
Fontawesome Icons provide you with over 675 icons and they come in font format.

#### How To Use:

In the `<head>` of your html include a reference to Font Awesome. 
```html
<link href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
```
Using fontawesome is same as using Glyphicon. 

Simply create `<i>` or `<span>` tag and apply the CSS Prefix `fa` and the icon's name.  A code example has been provided below.

**Code Example:**

`<i class="fa fa-twitter" aria-hidden="true"></i>`

<i class="fa fa-twitter" aria-hidden="true"></i>

`<span class="fa fa-freecodecamp" aria-hidden="true"></span>`

<span class="fa fa-freecodecamp" aria-hidden="true"></span>

#### Fontawesome Icon List:
Complete list of icons provided by fontawesome is available [here](http://fontawesome.io/cheatsheet/)

`.fa fa-align-left` This is fontawesome align left icon.

<span class="fa fa-align-left" aria-hidden="true"></span>

`.fa fa-heart` This is fontawesome heart icon.

<span class="fa fa-heart" aria-hidden="true"></span>

_Note: Do not include the dot in the HTML Class Attribute, referring to the classes with a dot is only used when adjusting the classes in CSS._

#### More Information:
[Fontawesome Cheatsheet](http://fontawesome.io/cheatsheet/)

Commit message:

Changed fontawesome to Font Awesome in index.md

guide/english/bootstrap/fontawesome-icons/index.md, after:

---
title: Font Awesome Icons For Bootstrap
---
## Font Awesome Icons For Bootstrap

Bootstrap (from version 4 onwards) have dropped Glyphicon icons font in their latest release. 
Font Awesome Icons provide you with over 675 icons and they come in font format.

#### How To Use:

In the `<head>` of your html include a reference to Font Awesome. 
```html
<link href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
```
Using Font Awesome is same as using Glyphicon. 

Simply create `<i>` or `<span>` tag and apply the CSS Prefix `fa` and the icon's name.  A code example has been provided below.

**Code Example:**

`<i class="fa fa-twitter" aria-hidden="true"></i>`

<i class="fa fa-twitter" aria-hidden="true"></i>

`<span class="fa fa-freecodecamp" aria-hidden="true"></span>`

<span class="fa fa-freecodecamp" aria-hidden="true"></span>

#### Font Awesome Icon List:
Complete list of icons provided by Font Awesome is available [here](http://fontawesome.io/cheatsheet/)

`.fa fa-align-left` This is Font Awesome align left icon.

<span class="fa fa-align-left" aria-hidden="true"></span>

`.fa fa-heart` This is Font Awesome heart icon.

<span class="fa fa-heart" aria-hidden="true"></span>

_Note: Do not include the dot in the HTML Class Attribute, referring to the classes with a dot is only used when adjusting the classes in CSS._

#### More Information:
[Fontawesome Cheatsheet](http://fontawesome.io/cheatsheet/)
