---
id: 68c850ed23d494c9be5cb22a
title: Grammar Highlights
challengeType: 31
dashedName: grammar-highlights
---

<!-- GRAMMAR -->

# --description--

`¡Felicitaciones!` Congratulations on completing your first **Learn** and **Practice** sections!

You've now reached the **Review** section of this module. Every module has a review section. So, this is a great place to revisit whenever you want to refresh your memory about the topics you just saw. 

The task below is called **Grammar Highlights**, and its goal is to summarize the key grammar you've covered in this module.

After reading it, just mark the task as complete and continue to the next part of the review.

## Grammar Highlights

### Subject Pronoun Omission

In Spanish, it's common to omit the subject pronoun (like `yo`, `tú`, etc.) because the verb form already tells who the subject is. For example:

- `Soy Camila.` – I am Camila.  

- `Me llamo Esteban.` – My name is Esteban.

<br />

### Using `soy` to Talk About Identity

The verb `ser` (to be) is used to describe who you are; Like your name or profession.

`Soy` means "I am". It's often followed directly by a noun and no article is needed. For example:

- `Soy diseñadora.` – I am a designer.  

- `Soy analista.` – I am an analyst.

### No Articles Before Professions

In English, people say "a developer", but in Spanish, you **don't use** an article (`un` or `una`) before a profession.

You can use `Soy analista`.

### Greeting with Time of Day

Spanish greetings change depending on the time of day. They are treated as **set phrases**. For example:

- `Hola, buenos días.` – Hello, good morning.  

- `Hola, buenas tardes.` – Hello, good afternoon.  

- `Hola, buenas noches.` – Hello, good evening.

- `Adiós, buenas noches.` – Goodbye, good night.


### Combined Farewells

In Spanish, it's polite and common to use **multiple farewell phrases together**, such as:

- `Hasta luego. Adiós.` – See you later. Goodbye. 

- `Hasta mañana. Chao.` – See you tomorrow. Bye.

### Accents and Pronunciation

Accents in Spanish show where to put the stress and sometimes change the meaning of a word. Examples from this lesson:

- `Días` – days (stress on the `í`).

- `Adiós` – goodbye (stress on the `ó`).

### Special Letters in Spanish

`ll` – This double letter is usually pronounced like a `y` in many Spanish-speaking countries. For example: 

`Me llamo` – my name is

`Ñ` – This letter has a distinct sound. It is treated as a separate letter in the Spanish alphabet. For example: 

`Mañana` – tomorrow

# --assignment--

I confirm I read the grammar highlights.
