---
id: 677fb3e018bb121af7f62359
title: Task 48
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-48
---

# --instructions--

This task doesn't have audio. Read the question below and select the correct answer.

# --questions--

## --text--

Which sentence is grammatically correct?

## --answers--

`If we don't backed up regularly, we could lose important information, right?`

### --feedback--

This is incorrect because `don't backed up` is not a valid verb form.

---

`If we don't back up regularly, we could lose important information, right?`

---

`If we didn't back up regularly, we could lose important information, right?`

### --feedback--

This is grammatically correct but expresses a different meaning. It's a `Second Conditional` and refers to a hypothetical situation, while Bob is talking about a real possibility.

---

`If we don't back up regularly, we can lost important information, right?`

### --feedback--

This is incorrect because `can lost` is not a valid verb phrase.

## --video-solution--

2

# --explanation--

The `First Conditional` is used to describe real and possible situations in the future. It is formed with `if` + `Present Simple` (for the condition) and `will` + base verb (for the result). For example:

`If you debug the code, the app will run smoothly.` - Fixing the code will result in the app working properly.

In the correct sentence, the condition is `If we don't back up regularly`, and the result is `we could lose important information`. This suggests a real possibility.
