---
id: 67824ee5e84e0d46eee32524
title: Task 84
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-84
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`human error`, `regularly`, `schedule`, `critical data`, `rely on`, `a disaster`, and `data backup`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Bob: Hi Maria, have you checked our BLANK procedures recently? If we don't back up BLANK, we could lose important information, right?`

`Maria: Yes, you're correct. If someone forgets, it could be BLANK. But I think we are pretty solid here. Brian helped us set up a reminder to back up our work daily along with some other tasks.`

`Bob: Oh, I see. So, you don't need to BLANK your memory. That's clever!`

`Maria: I agree. But, why did you ask? Did you notice something wrong?`

`Bob: No. Not really. I was in a meeting where the stakeholders were talking about it and I just wanted to double-check. If we lose BLANK, it could set us back weeks. Is there anything else we can do besides these reminders?`

`Maria: Besides the daily reminders, we could also set up automatic backups. If we automate the process, there's less chance of BLANK. What do you think?`

`Bob: I think that's a great idea. If we automate it, we don't have to worry about people forgetting. How can we set it up?`

`Maria: Brian mentioned we can BLANK automatic backups at the end of each day. If we do that, it should cover most of our bases.`

## --blanks--

`data backup`

### --feedback--

This is a copy of important information stored securely to prevent loss during a system failure or disaster.

---

`regularly`

### --feedback--

This means something is done often and at consistent intervals.

---

`a disaster`

### --feedback--

This refers to an event causing significant damage or disruption.

---

`rely on`

### --feedback--

This phrase means to depend on something or someone for support or help.

---

`critical data`

### --feedback--

This refers to important or essential information that is vital for operations.

---

`human error`

### --feedback--

This refers to mistakes made by people during a process.

---

`schedule`

### --feedback--

To arrange or plan something to happen at a specific time.
