guide/english/book-recommendations/index.md, before:

---
title: Books to Read for Programmers
---

### List of Books

## General

*Automate the Boring Stuff With Python* by Al Sweigart
- http://automatetheboringstuff.com/
- ISBN-13: 978-1593275990

*Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs* by Harold Abelson, Gerald Jay Sussman, and Julie Sussman
- https://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/
- ISBN-13: 978-0262510875

*Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Crafstmanship* by Robert C. Martin
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Clean-Code-Handbook-Software-Craftsmanship/dp/0132350882?sa-no-redirect=1)
- ISBN-13: 978-0132350884

*CODE: The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software* by Charles Petzold
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Code-Language-Computer-Hardware-Software/dp/0735611319/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1508780869&sr=1-1&keywords=code)
- ISBN-13: 978-0735611313

*Don't Make Me Think, Revisited: A Common Sense Approach to Web Usability by Steve Krug*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Dont-Make-Think-Revisited-Usability/dp/0321965515/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1538370339&sr=8-1&keywords=dont+make+me+think)
- ISBN-13: 978-0321965516

*Programming Pearls (2nd Edition) by Jon Bentley*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Programming-Pearls-2nd-Jon-Bentley/dp/0201657880)
- ISBN-13: 978-0201657883

*Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs*
- https://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/
- ISBN-13: 978-0262510875

*The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master* by Andrew Hunt and David Thomas
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Pragmatic-Programmer-Journeyman-Master/dp/020161622X?sa-no-redirect=1)
- ISBN-13: 978-0201616224

*The Self-Taught Programmer: The Definitive Guide to Programming Professionally* by Cory Althoff
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Self-Taught-Programmer-Definitive-Programming-Professionally-ebook/dp/B01M01YDQA?sa-no-redirect=1)
- ISBN-13: 978-1520288178

*You Don't Know JS (book series)* by Kyle Simpson
- https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS
- ISBN-13: 9781491924464

*Soft Skills: The software developer's life manual* - John Sonmez
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Soft-Skills-software-developers-manual/dp/1617292397?pldnSite=1)
- ISBN-13: 9781617292392

## Algorithms

*Introduction to Algorithms, 3rd Edition (MIT Press)* by Thomas H. Cormen and Charles E. Leiserson
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Introduction-Algorithms-3rd-MIT-Press/dp/0262033844/)
- ISBN-13: 978-0262033848

*Cracking the Coding Interview: 150 Programming Questions and Solutions* by Gayle Laakmann McDowell 
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280X)
- ISBN-13: 978-0984782802

## BASH

*The Linux Command Line: A Complete Introduction 1st Edition by William E. Shotts Jr*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/The-Linux-Command-Line-Introduction/dp/1593273894)
- ISBN-13: 978-1593273897

*Learning the bash Shell: Unix Shell Programming by Cameron Newham*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Learning-bash-Shell-Programming-Nutshell/dp/0596009658)
- ISBN-13: 978-0596009656

## C-lang
*C Notes for Professionals book
-https://books.goalkicker.com/CBook/

*The C Programming Language* by Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Programming-Language-2nd-Brian-Kernighan/dp/0131103628/)
- ISBN-13: 978-0131103628

*A Book on C: Programming in C*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Book-Programming-4th-Al-Kelley/dp/0201183994/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_bdcrb_top?ie=UTF8)
- ISBN-13: 978-0201183993

## C#

*C# 6.0 in a Nutshell: The Definitive Reference 6th Edition* by Joseph Albahari  (Author), Ben Albahari (Author)
- https://www.amazon.com/C-6-0-Nutshell-Definitive-Reference/dp/1491927062/ref=sr_1_2?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1539643378&sr=1-2&keywords=C%23+6.0+in+a+nutshell
- ISBN-13: 978-1491927069

*Pro C# 7: With .NET and .NET Core Paperback – Nov 21 2017* by Andrew Troelsen (Author), Philip Japikse (Author)
- https://www.amazon.com/Pro-NET-Core-Andrew-Troelsen/dp/1484230175/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1539643534&sr=1-1&keywords=Pro-NET-Core-Andrew-Troelsen
- ISBN-13: 978-1484230176

## Coding Interview

*Cracking the Coding Interview: 150 Programming Questions and Solutions*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280X)
- ISBN-13: 978-0984782802

*Programming Interviews Exposed: Secrets to Landing Your Next Job, 2nd Edition*
- [Wiley](https://www.wiley.com/en-id/Programming+Interviews+Exposed:+Secrets+to+Landing+Your+Next+Job,+2nd+Edition-p-9780470121672)
- ISBN: 978-0-470-12167-2

## Java

*Head First Java* by Kathy Sierra and Bert Bates
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Head-First-Java-Kathy-Sierra/dp/0596009208)
- ISBN-13: 978-0596009205

*Effective Java by Joshua Bloch*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Effective-Java-3rd-Joshua-Bloch/dp/0134685997)
- ISBN-13: 978-0134685991

## JavaScript

*You Don't Know JS (book series)*
- https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS
- ISBN-13: 9781491924464 

*Eloquent JavaScript: A Modern Introduction to Programming by Marijn Haverbeke*
- [Read it online here](https://eloquentjavascript.net)
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/1593275846/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1593275846&linkCode=as2&tag=marijhaver-20&linkId=VPXXXSRYC5COG5R5)
-ISBN-13: 978-1593275846

*JavaScript: The Good Parts*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/JavaScript-Good-Parts-Douglas-Crockford/dp/0596517742)
- ISBN-13: 978-0596517748

*JavaScript and JQuery: Interactive Front-End Web Development*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/JavaScript-JQuery-Interactive-Front-End-Development/dp/1118531647/?pldnSite=1)
- ISBN-13: 978-1118531648 

## Python

*Automate the Boring Stuff With Python*
- http://automatetheboringstuff.com/
- ISBN-13: 978-1593275990

*Core Python Applications Programming (3rd Edition) by Wesley J Chun*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Core-Python-Applications-Programming-3rd/dp/0132678209)
- ISBN-13: 978-0132678209

## Soft Skills

*Soft Skills: The software developer's life manual*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Soft-Skills-software-developers-manual/dp/1617292397?pldnSite=1)
- ISBN-13: 9781617292392 

## Other

*Hacking: Ultimate Hacking Guide: Hacking For Beginners And Tor Browser
- https://www.amazon.in/dp/B075CX7T6G/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_awdb_t1_-7ESBbZ43CCBM
- (ISBN 1976112524).

*Code: The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software (Developer Best Practices) *
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Code-Language-Computer-Hardware-Software/dp/0735611319)
- ISBN-13: 978-0735611313

*Data Structures And Algorithms Made Easy*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Data-Structures-Algorithms-Made-Easy/dp/819324527X)
- ISBN-13: 978-8193245279

*Think Python: How to Think Like a Computer Scientist*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Think-Python-Like-Computer-Scientist/dp/1491939362)
- ISBN-13: 978-1491939369

*Python Crash Course: A Hands-On, Project-Based Introduction to Programming*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Python-Crash-Course-Hands-Project-Based/dp/1593276036)
- ISBN-13: 978-1593276034

*Computer Science Distilled: Learn the art of solving computaitonal problems by Wladston Ferreira Filho*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Computer-Science-Distilled-Computational-Problems/dp/0997316020)
- ISBN-13: 978-0-9773160-2-5

*Algorithms Unlocked by Thomas H. Cormen*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Algorithms-Unlocked-Press-Thomas-Cormen/dp/0262518805)
- ISBN-13: 978-0262518802

*Violent Python: A Cookbook for Hackers, Forensic Analysts, Penetration Testers and Security Engineers*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Violent-Python-Cookbook-Penetration-Engineers/dp/1597499579/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1538665634&sr=8-2&keywords=violent+python)
- ISBN-13: 978-1597499576

*The Shellcoder's Handbook: Discovering and Exploiting Security Holes*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Shellcoders-Handbook-Discovering-Exploiting-Security/dp/047008023X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1538665772&sr=8-1&keywords=shellcoders+handbook+3rd+edition&dpID=41xfa6zpuPL&preST=_SX218_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch)
- ISBN-13: 978-0470080238

*Head First C: A Brain-Friendly Guide*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Head-First-C-Brain-Friendly-Guide/dp/1449399916/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1538665818&sr=8-2&keywords=head+first+c&dpID=51StqzL2dWL&preST=_SX218_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch)
- ISBN-13: 978-1449399917

*Practical Object-Oriented Design in Ruby*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Practical-Object-Oriented-Design-Ruby-Addison-Wesley/dp/0321721330)
- ISBN-13: 978-0321721334

*Thinking in C++ by Bruce Eckel*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Thinking-C-Bruce-Eckel/dp/0139177094)
- ISBN-13: 978-0139177095

*Operating System Concepts*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Operating-System-Concepts-Abraham-Silberschatz/dp/1118063333/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1538967825&sr=1-1&keywords=operating+system+concepts+10th+edition&dpID=51Qy2upM%252BaL&preST=_SY291_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch)
- ISBN-13: 978-1118063330

*Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach (7th Edition) by Kurose and Ross*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Computer-Networking-Top-Down-Approach-7th/dp/0133594149/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1538967896&sr=1-1&keywords=kurose+and+ross&dpID=51xp1%252BoDRML&preST=_SX218_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch)
- ISBN-13: 978-0133594140 

*Competitive Programming 3: The New Lower Bound of Programming Contests*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Competitive-Programming-3rd-Steven-Halim/dp/B00FG8MNN8)
- ISBN-13: 978-5800083125

*Dynamic Programming for Coding Interviews: A Bottom-Up approach to problem solving*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.in/Dynamic-Programming-Coding-Interviews-Bottom-Up-ebook/dp/B06XZ61CMP)
- ISBN-13: 978-1946556691

*GATE 2019 Computer Science and Information Technology*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/GATE-Computer-Science-Information-Technology/dp/194658178X)
- ISBN-13: 978-1946581785

*The Art of Computer Programming by Donald E. Knuth*
- https://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~knuth/taocp.html
- ISBN-13: 978-0321751041

*Facts and Fallacies of Software Engineering*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Facts-Fallacies-Software-Engineering-Robert/dp/0321117425/)
- ISBN-13: 978-0321117427

*The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering*
- [Amazon Smile](https://www.amazon.com/Mythical-Man-Month-Software-Engineering-Anniversary/dp/0201835959)
- ISBN-13: 978-0201835953

*Deep Learning by Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-Adaptive-Computation-Machine/dp/0262035618)
- ISBN: 978-0262035613
*Oracle® Database Notes for Professionals*
https://books.goalkicker.com/OracleDatabaseBook/

*Pro PHP Programming - Peter MacIntyre*
[Amazon]https://www.amazon.com/Pro-PHP-Programming-Peter-MacIntyre-ebook/dp/B005PZ09AG

*Mastering Linux Shell Scripting by Andrew Mallett*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Mastering-Linux-Scripting-Andrew-Mallett/dp/1784396974/)
- ISBN-13: 978-1784396978

This list was compiled from multiple suggestion threads on Reddit and Stackoverflow. 

Please feel free to add more that you have found useful!

Commit message:

added two books for android

guide/english/book-recommendations/index.md, after:

---
title: Books to Read for Programmers
---

### List of Books

## General

*Automate the Boring Stuff With Python* by Al Sweigart
- http://automatetheboringstuff.com/
- ISBN-13: 978-1593275990

*Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs* by Harold Abelson, Gerald Jay Sussman, and Julie Sussman
- https://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/
- ISBN-13: 978-0262510875

*Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Crafstmanship* by Robert C. Martin
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Clean-Code-Handbook-Software-Craftsmanship/dp/0132350882?sa-no-redirect=1)
- ISBN-13: 978-0132350884

*CODE: The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software* by Charles Petzold
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Code-Language-Computer-Hardware-Software/dp/0735611319/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1508780869&sr=1-1&keywords=code)
- ISBN-13: 978-0735611313

*Don't Make Me Think, Revisited: A Common Sense Approach to Web Usability by Steve Krug*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Dont-Make-Think-Revisited-Usability/dp/0321965515/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1538370339&sr=8-1&keywords=dont+make+me+think)
- ISBN-13: 978-0321965516

*Programming Pearls (2nd Edition) by Jon Bentley*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Programming-Pearls-2nd-Jon-Bentley/dp/0201657880)
- ISBN-13: 978-0201657883

*Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs*
- https://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/
- ISBN-13: 978-0262510875

*The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master* by Andrew Hunt and David Thomas
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Pragmatic-Programmer-Journeyman-Master/dp/020161622X?sa-no-redirect=1)
- ISBN-13: 978-0201616224

*The Self-Taught Programmer: The Definitive Guide to Programming Professionally* by Cory Althoff
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Self-Taught-Programmer-Definitive-Programming-Professionally-ebook/dp/B01M01YDQA?sa-no-redirect=1)
- ISBN-13: 978-1520288178

*You Don't Know JS (book series)* by Kyle Simpson
- https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS
- ISBN-13: 9781491924464

*Soft Skills: The software developer's life manual* - John Sonmez
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Soft-Skills-software-developers-manual/dp/1617292397?pldnSite=1)
- ISBN-13: 9781617292392

## Algorithms

*Introduction to Algorithms, 3rd Edition (MIT Press)* by Thomas H. Cormen and Charles E. Leiserson
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Introduction-Algorithms-3rd-MIT-Press/dp/0262033844/)
- ISBN-13: 978-0262033848

*Cracking the Coding Interview: 150 Programming Questions and Solutions* by Gayle Laakmann McDowell 
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280X)
- ISBN-13: 978-0984782802

## BASH

*The Linux Command Line: A Complete Introduction 1st Edition by William E. Shotts Jr*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/The-Linux-Command-Line-Introduction/dp/1593273894)
- ISBN-13: 978-1593273897

*Learning the bash Shell: Unix Shell Programming by Cameron Newham*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Learning-bash-Shell-Programming-Nutshell/dp/0596009658)
- ISBN-13: 978-0596009656

## C-lang
*C Notes for Professionals book
-https://books.goalkicker.com/CBook/

*The C Programming Language* by Brian W. Kernighan and Dennis M. Ritchie
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Programming-Language-2nd-Brian-Kernighan/dp/0131103628/)
- ISBN-13: 978-0131103628

*A Book on C: Programming in C*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Book-Programming-4th-Al-Kelley/dp/0201183994/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_bdcrb_top?ie=UTF8)
- ISBN-13: 978-0201183993

## C#

*C# 6.0 in a Nutshell: The Definitive Reference 6th Edition* by Joseph Albahari  (Author), Ben Albahari (Author)
- https://www.amazon.com/C-6-0-Nutshell-Definitive-Reference/dp/1491927062/ref=sr_1_2?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1539643378&sr=1-2&keywords=C%23+6.0+in+a+nutshell
- ISBN-13: 978-1491927069

*Pro C# 7: With .NET and .NET Core Paperback – Nov 21 2017* by Andrew Troelsen (Author), Philip Japikse (Author)
- https://www.amazon.com/Pro-NET-Core-Andrew-Troelsen/dp/1484230175/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1539643534&sr=1-1&keywords=Pro-NET-Core-Andrew-Troelsen
- ISBN-13: 978-1484230176

## Coding Interview

*Cracking the Coding Interview: 150 Programming Questions and Solutions*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280X)
- ISBN-13: 978-0984782802

*Programming Interviews Exposed: Secrets to Landing Your Next Job, 2nd Edition*
- [Wiley](https://www.wiley.com/en-id/Programming+Interviews+Exposed:+Secrets+to+Landing+Your+Next+Job,+2nd+Edition-p-9780470121672)
- ISBN: 978-0-470-12167-2

## Java

*Head First Java* by Kathy Sierra and Bert Bates
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Head-First-Java-Kathy-Sierra/dp/0596009208)
- ISBN-13: 978-0596009205

*Effective Java by Joshua Bloch*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Effective-Java-3rd-Joshua-Bloch/dp/0134685997)
- ISBN-13: 978-0134685991

## JavaScript

*You Don't Know JS (book series)*
- https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS
- ISBN-13: 9781491924464 

*Eloquent JavaScript: A Modern Introduction to Programming by Marijn Haverbeke*
- [Read it online here](https://eloquentjavascript.net)
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/gp/product/1593275846/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1593275846&linkCode=as2&tag=marijhaver-20&linkId=VPXXXSRYC5COG5R5)
-ISBN-13: 978-1593275846

*JavaScript: The Good Parts*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/JavaScript-Good-Parts-Douglas-Crockford/dp/0596517742)
- ISBN-13: 978-0596517748

*JavaScript and JQuery: Interactive Front-End Web Development*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/JavaScript-JQuery-Interactive-Front-End-Development/dp/1118531647/?pldnSite=1)
- ISBN-13: 978-1118531648 

## Python

*Automate the Boring Stuff With Python*
- http://automatetheboringstuff.com/
- ISBN-13: 978-1593275990

*Core Python Applications Programming (3rd Edition) by Wesley J Chun*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Core-Python-Applications-Programming-3rd/dp/0132678209)
- ISBN-13: 978-0132678209

## Soft Skills

*Soft Skills: The software developer's life manual*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Soft-Skills-software-developers-manual/dp/1617292397?pldnSite=1)
- ISBN-13: 9781617292392

## Android

*Android programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide by by Bill Phillips and Chris Stewart*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Android-Programming-Ranch-Guide-Guides/dp/0134706056/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1539902741&sr=8-1&keywords=android+programming+the+big+nerd+ranch+guide+3rd+edition&dpID=412puBdQscL&preST=_SY291_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch)
- ISBN-13: 978-0134706054

*Android Design Patterns: Interaction Design Solutions for Developers*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Android-Design-Patterns-Interaction-Developers/dp/1118394151/ref=mt_paperback?_encoding=UTF8&me=&qid=)
- ISBN-13: 978-1118394151

## Other

*Hacking: Ultimate Hacking Guide: Hacking For Beginners And Tor Browser
- https://www.amazon.in/dp/B075CX7T6G/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_awdb_t1_-7ESBbZ43CCBM
- (ISBN 1976112524).

*Code: The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software (Developer Best Practices) *
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Code-Language-Computer-Hardware-Software/dp/0735611319)
- ISBN-13: 978-0735611313

*Data Structures And Algorithms Made Easy*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Data-Structures-Algorithms-Made-Easy/dp/819324527X)
- ISBN-13: 978-8193245279

*Think Python: How to Think Like a Computer Scientist*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Think-Python-Like-Computer-Scientist/dp/1491939362)
- ISBN-13: 978-1491939369

*Python Crash Course: A Hands-On, Project-Based Introduction to Programming*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Python-Crash-Course-Hands-Project-Based/dp/1593276036)
- ISBN-13: 978-1593276034

*Computer Science Distilled: Learn the art of solving computaitonal problems by Wladston Ferreira Filho*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Computer-Science-Distilled-Computational-Problems/dp/0997316020)
- ISBN-13: 978-0-9773160-2-5

*Algorithms Unlocked by Thomas H. Cormen*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Algorithms-Unlocked-Press-Thomas-Cormen/dp/0262518805)
- ISBN-13: 978-0262518802

*Violent Python: A Cookbook for Hackers, Forensic Analysts, Penetration Testers and Security Engineers*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Violent-Python-Cookbook-Penetration-Engineers/dp/1597499579/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1538665634&sr=8-2&keywords=violent+python)
- ISBN-13: 978-1597499576

*The Shellcoder's Handbook: Discovering and Exploiting Security Holes*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Shellcoders-Handbook-Discovering-Exploiting-Security/dp/047008023X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1538665772&sr=8-1&keywords=shellcoders+handbook+3rd+edition&dpID=41xfa6zpuPL&preST=_SX218_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch)
- ISBN-13: 978-0470080238

*Head First C: A Brain-Friendly Guide*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Head-First-C-Brain-Friendly-Guide/dp/1449399916/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1538665818&sr=8-2&keywords=head+first+c&dpID=51StqzL2dWL&preST=_SX218_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch)
- ISBN-13: 978-1449399917

*Practical Object-Oriented Design in Ruby*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Practical-Object-Oriented-Design-Ruby-Addison-Wesley/dp/0321721330)
- ISBN-13: 978-0321721334

*Thinking in C++ by Bruce Eckel*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Thinking-C-Bruce-Eckel/dp/0139177094)
- ISBN-13: 978-0139177095

*Operating System Concepts*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Operating-System-Concepts-Abraham-Silberschatz/dp/1118063333/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1538967825&sr=1-1&keywords=operating+system+concepts+10th+edition&dpID=51Qy2upM%252BaL&preST=_SY291_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch)
- ISBN-13: 978-1118063330

*Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach (7th Edition) by Kurose and Ross*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Computer-Networking-Top-Down-Approach-7th/dp/0133594149/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1538967896&sr=1-1&keywords=kurose+and+ross&dpID=51xp1%252BoDRML&preST=_SX218_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch)
- ISBN-13: 978-0133594140 

*Competitive Programming 3: The New Lower Bound of Programming Contests*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Competitive-Programming-3rd-Steven-Halim/dp/B00FG8MNN8)
- ISBN-13: 978-5800083125

*Dynamic Programming for Coding Interviews: A Bottom-Up approach to problem solving*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.in/Dynamic-Programming-Coding-Interviews-Bottom-Up-ebook/dp/B06XZ61CMP)
- ISBN-13: 978-1946556691

*GATE 2019 Computer Science and Information Technology*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/GATE-Computer-Science-Information-Technology/dp/194658178X)
- ISBN-13: 978-1946581785

*The Art of Computer Programming by Donald E. Knuth*
- https://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~knuth/taocp.html
- ISBN-13: 978-0321751041

*Facts and Fallacies of Software Engineering*
- [Amazon Smile](https://smile.amazon.com/Facts-Fallacies-Software-Engineering-Robert/dp/0321117425/)
- ISBN-13: 978-0321117427

*The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering*
- [Amazon Smile](https://www.amazon.com/Mythical-Man-Month-Software-Engineering-Anniversary/dp/0201835959)
- ISBN-13: 978-0201835953

*Deep Learning by Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-Adaptive-Computation-Machine/dp/0262035618)
- ISBN: 978-0262035613
*Oracle® Database Notes for Professionals*
https://books.goalkicker.com/OracleDatabaseBook/

*Pro PHP Programming - Peter MacIntyre*
[Amazon]https://www.amazon.com/Pro-PHP-Programming-Peter-MacIntyre-ebook/dp/B005PZ09AG

*Mastering Linux Shell Scripting by Andrew Mallett*
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Mastering-Linux-Scripting-Andrew-Mallett/dp/1784396974/)
- ISBN-13: 978-1784396978

This list was compiled from multiple suggestion threads on Reddit and Stackoverflow. 

Please feel free to add more that you have found useful!
