---
id: 65fff57ce568cf1ed9702fbf
title: Task 15
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-15
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`check for`, `navigate`, `relevant to`, `index`, `overview`, and `introductory`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Tom: I'm trying to understand the code documentation, but it's quite overwhelming. What should I do to BLANK it more effectively?`

`Sarah: Don't worry. When you're faced with extensive documentation, the first thing you should do is BLANK a table of contents or an BLANK. It can help you find the specific information you're looking for.`

`Tom: Okay, that makes sense. And what should I do next?`

`Sarah: Once you've found the section you need, you should start by reading the BLANK paragraphs to get an BLANK of what the documentation covers. Then you can skim through and focus on the parts BLANK your current task.`

`Tom: Thanks, I'll go over the documentation as you said.`

## --blanks--

`navigate`

### --feedback--

To move through something, like a website or document.

---

`check for`

### --feedback--

To look to see if something is there or correct.

---

`index`

### --feedback--

A list that shows where to find things in a book or document.

---

`introductory`

### --feedback--

The beginning part that gives a basic explanation.

---

`overview`

### --feedback--

A short summary that gives the main idea of something.

---

`relevant to`

### --feedback--

Connected to or important for the topic.
