---
id: 660014d3f5b02038de6ac35c
title: Task 27
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-27
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`values`, `parameters`, `descriptions`, `snippets`, `pay attention`, and `keep in mind`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Tom: I often find function BLANK in the documentation, but I'm not sure how to interpret them. What should I focus on when I'm reading these?`

`Sarah: That's a great question. First, you should BLANK to the function's name and BLANK. It can give you an idea of what the function does and how to use it.`

`Tom: Got it. Is there anything else I should BLANK?`

`Sarah: Absolutely. You should look for a description of what the function does and any return BLANK. Also, check for any examples or code BLANK. They can help you illustrate how to use the function effectively.`

`Tom: Great tips. Thanks a lot.`

## --blanks--

`descriptions`

### --feedback--

Words that explain what something is or how it works.

---

`pay attention`

### --feedback--

To watch or listen carefully.

---

`parameters`

### --feedback--

The information you give to a function so it can do its job.

---

`keep in mind`

### --feedback--

To remember something because it's important.

---

`values`

### --feedback--

The data stored in variables, like numbers or text.

---

`snippets`

### --feedback--

Small pieces of code that do a specific task.
