---
id: 661772f42e1412d5bfe4c655
title: Task 12
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-12
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Sarah: I'm not sure I agree with that, Brian. The web app needs attention. It has more users. Prioritizing the web app makes more sense given its larger user base.
-->

# --description--

You can use different phrases or words to talk about reasoning, such as:

`Justifying` means giving reasons or explanations for your opinions or actions. An example is, `I chose to study at the library instead of at home. Justifying my decision, I find it quieter and less distracting, which helps me focus better on my work.`

`Because` is used to explain the reason for something. For example, `We're updating the website because it's outdated.`

`That is why` is another way to give a reason. It's like saying, `The server is down. That is why the website is not accessible.`

`Given` is used to introduce a fact that is the basis for the decision. For instance, `Given the high demand, we need more people on the team.` or `We need more people on the team given the high demand.`

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`I'm not sure I agree with that, Brian. The web app needs _. It has more users. _ the web app makes more sense _ its larger user base.`

## --blanks--

`attention`

### --feedback--

It means focusing on or giving priority to the web app because it has more users.

---

`Prioritizing`

### --feedback--

It means making something more important or giving it preference. Sarah suggests that the web app should be a priority.

---

`given`

### --feedback--

It introduces the reason for the decision, which is the larger user base of the web app.
