---
id: 6557dea8c258c1c2a767deb7
title: Task 30
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-30
audioPath: curriculum/js-music-player/We-Are-Going-to-Make-it.mp3
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE: 
James: I can't imagine being so productive even before coming to work! 
-->

# --description--

The word `even` is used to add emphasis to a statement, often highlighting something surprising, unexpected, or extreme.

When combined with `before` in the phrase `even before`, it emphasizes that an action or event occurs earlier than usual or expected, adding a sense of surprise or admiration. For example:

`Even before the sun rises, she starts her workout.` (emphasizes that her workout begins unusually early)

`He finished the project even before the deadline.` (implies that finishing before the deadline is surprisingly early)

In conversation, using `even` can express that something is more than what might be considered normal or usual. It makes the statement stronger.

# --question--

## --text--

What is James implying by using `even before` in his statement?

## --answers--

He expects everyone to be productive before coming to work

### --feedback--

`Even before` in this context is not an expectation.

---

Sarah is only productive at work, not before

### --feedback--

James's use of `even before` suggests that he's surprised Sarah is productive before work, not that she's only productive at work.

---

Being productive before work is a regular occurrence for everyone

### --feedback--

The use of `even before` indicates that James finds being productive before work unusually early, not a regular occurrence.

---

He is surprised that Sarah is productive before arriving at work

## --video-solution--

4
