guide/english/laravel/index.md, before:

---
title: Laravel
---
# Laravel

Laravel is a free and open-source PHP web framework available on [GitHub](https://github.com/laravel/laravel) and licensed under the terms of MIT License. It was created by Taylor Otwell who designed it with the objetive of enabling the development of web applications following the model–view–controller (MVC) architectural pattern and it is now the most starred PHP framework on GitHub. Some of the main features found in Laravel are different ways for accessing relational databases, utilities that aid in application deployment and maintenance and at last but not least modular packaging system with a dedicated dependency manager.

Because Laravel is open-source the community around it is very strong and so is the documentation where you can learn how to do almost everything, try taking a look at the [Laravel Documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/) to get a glimpse of the open source power!

### Featured Packages

Ready-to-use bundles provided by Laravel through Composer and Packagist include the following:

Cashier, introduced in Laravel 4.2, provides an interface for managing subscription billing services provided by Stripe, such as handling coupons and generating invoices.
SSH, introduced in Laravel 4.1, allows programmatic execution of CLI commands on remote servers using the Secure Shell (SSH) as an encrypted network protocol.
Scheduler, introduced in Laravel 5.0, is an addition to the Artisan command-line utility that allows programmatic scheduling of periodically executed tasks. Internally, Scheduler relies on the cron daemon to run a single Artisan job that, in turn, executes the configured tasks.
Flysystem, introduced in Laravel 5.0, is a file system abstraction layer that allows local file systems and cloud-based storage services provided by Amazon S3 and Rackspace Cloud to be used transparently and in the same way.
Socialite, introduced in Laravel 5.0 as an optional package, provides simplified mechanisms for authentication with different OAuth providers, including Facebook, Twitter, Google, GitHub and Bitbucket.:13

Commit message:

Improved wording and added resources section
A minor typo/spelling error was also corrected

guide/english/laravel/index.md, after:

---
title: Laravel
---
# Laravel

[Laravel](https://laravel.com/) is a free and open-source PHP web framework available on [GitHub](https://github.com/laravel/laravel) and licensed under the terms of MIT License. It was created by Taylor Otwell and designed with the objective of enabling rapid development of web applications following the model–view–controller (MVC) architectural pattern. It has gained a lot of traction over the years and is now the most starred PHP framework on GitHub. 

Some of the main features found in Laravel are different ways for accessing relational databases, utilities that aid in application deployment and maintenance, and a modular packaging system with a dedicated dependency manager. Laravel also simplifies a lot of common tasks found in web development and provides out of the box solutions for things like authentication, routing, and queues, allowing you to focus on your application.

Because Laravel is open-source, the community around it is very strong and the documentation is top-notch and example driven. Take a look at the [official documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/) to get a glimpse of how easy it is to use!

### Valuable Resources
* <a href='https://laracasts.com/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Laracasts</a>

### Featured Packages

Ready-to-use bundles provided by Laravel through Composer and Packagist include the following:

Cashier, introduced in Laravel 4.2, provides an interface for managing subscription billing services provided by Stripe, such as handling coupons and generating invoices.
SSH, introduced in Laravel 4.1, allows programmatic execution of CLI commands on remote servers using the Secure Shell (SSH) as an encrypted network protocol.
Scheduler, introduced in Laravel 5.0, is an addition to the Artisan command-line utility that allows programmatic scheduling of periodically executed tasks. Internally, Scheduler relies on the cron daemon to run a single Artisan job that, in turn, executes the configured tasks.
Flysystem, introduced in Laravel 5.0, is a file system abstraction layer that allows local file systems and cloud-based storage services provided by Amazon S3 and Rackspace Cloud to be used transparently and in the same way.
Socialite, introduced in Laravel 5.0 as an optional package, provides simplified mechanisms for authentication with different OAuth providers, including Facebook, Twitter, Google, GitHub and Bitbucket.:13
