guide/english/agile/scrum/index.md, before:

---
title: Scrum
---
## Scrum

Scrum is one of the methodologies under the Agile umbrella. The name is derived from a method of resuming play in the sport of rugby, in which the entire team moves together to make ground. Similarly, a scrum in Agile involves all parts of the team working on the same set of goals. In the scrum method, a prioritized list of tasks is presented to the team, and over the course of a "sprint" (usually two weeks), those tasks are completed, in order, by the team. This insures that the highest-priority tasks or deliverables are completed before time or funds run out. 

### Components of a Scrum

Scrum is one of the methodologies under the Agile umbrella. It originates from 'scrummage' which is a term used in rugby to denote players huddling together to get possession of the ball.
The practice revolves around 

- A set of roles (delivery team, product owner, and scrum master)
- Ceremonies (sprint planning, daily standup, sprint review, sprint retrospective, and backlog grooming)
- Artifacts (product backlog, sprint backlog, product increment, and info radiators and reports).
- The main goal is to keep the team aligned on project progress to facilitate rapid iteration.
- Many organisations have opted for Scrum, because unlike the Waterfall model, it ensures a deliverable at the end of each Sprint.

## Artifacts
- Sprint: It is the time duration, mostly in weeks, for which a Team works to achieve or create a deliverable. A deliverable can defined as a piece of code of fragment of the Final Product which the team wants o achieve. Scrum advises to keep the duration of a Sprint between 2-4 weeks.
- Product Backlog: It is the list of tasks a Team is supposed to finish within the current Sprint. It is decided by the Product Owner, in agreement with the Management as well as Delivery Team.

## Roles
- Product Owner(PO): The ONLY Accountable person to the Management. PO decides what goes in or out of the Product Backlog.
- Delivery Team: They are required to work in accordance with the tasks set by their PO in the product backlog and deliver the required delivarable at the end of the sprint.
- Scrum Masters: - Scrum Master's has to strictly adhere to Scrum Guide and make the team understand the need to adhere to Scrum guide when following Scrum. It is a Scrum Master's job to ensure all Scrum ceremonies being conducted on time and participated by all the required people as per the scrum guide. The SM has to ensure that the Daily Scrum is conducted regularly and actively participated by the team.

#### More Information:

There are several online tools that can be used to do scrum for your team:

- [Scrum Do](https://www.scrumdo.com/) 
- [Asana](http://www.asana.com)
- [Trello](http://trello.com)
- [Monday](https://monday.com)
- [Basecamp](https://basecamp.com)
- [Airtable](https://airtable.com)
- [SmartSheet](https://www.smartsheet.com)

Here are some more resources:

- [Why Scrum](https://www.scrumalliance.org/why-scrum) from The Scrum Alliance
- [Scrum Guide](http://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html) from Scrum.org
- [Doing vs Being Agile](http://agilitrix.com/2016/04/doing-agile-vs-being-agile/)

Commit message:

Added a few more lines about Scrum.
Hope it'll help.

guide/english/agile/scrum/index.md, after:

---
title: Scrum
---
## Scrum

Scrum is one of the methodologies under the Agile umbrella. The name is derived from a method of resuming play in the sport of rugby, in which the entire team moves together to make ground. Similarly, a scrum in Agile involves all parts of the team working on the same set of goals. In the scrum method, a prioritized list of tasks is presented to the team, and over the course of a "sprint" (usually two weeks), those tasks are completed, in order, by the team. This insures that the highest-priority tasks or deliverables are completed before time or funds run out. 

Scrum wants you to "fail". Yes it sounded correct, infact it wants you to "fail fast". The trick is focusing on the second word "Fast". Failure is okay as long as you are learning from it, but if you have to wait too long, you are not going to learn nearly as much from it. Scrum takes the Agile manifesto and its key principles boils them down to a very simple framework that encourages small-scale focus and rapid learning cycles.

### Components of a Scrum

Scrum is one of the methodologies under the Agile umbrella. It originates from 'scrummage' which is a term used in rugby to denote players huddling together to get possession of the ball.
The practice revolves around 

- A set of roles (delivery team, product owner, and scrum master)
- Ceremonies (sprint planning, daily standup, sprint review, sprint retrospective, and backlog grooming)
- Artifacts (product backlog, sprint backlog, product increment, and info radiators and reports).
- The main goal is to keep the team aligned on project progress to facilitate rapid iteration.
- Many organisations have opted for Scrum, because unlike the Waterfall model, it ensures a deliverable at the end of each Sprint.

## Artifacts
- Sprint: It is the time duration, mostly in weeks, for which a Team works to achieve or create a deliverable. A deliverable can defined as a piece of code of fragment of the Final Product which the team wants o achieve. Scrum advises to keep the duration of a Sprint between 2-4 weeks.
- Product Backlog: It is the list of tasks a Team is supposed to finish within the current Sprint. It is decided by the Product Owner, in agreement with the Management as well as Delivery Team.

## Roles
- Product Owner(PO): The ONLY Accountable person to the Management. PO decides what goes in or out of the Product Backlog.
- Delivery Team: They are required to work in accordance with the tasks set by their PO in the product backlog and deliver the required delivarable at the end of the sprint.
- Scrum Masters: - Scrum Master's has to strictly adhere to Scrum Guide and make the team understand the need to adhere to Scrum guide when following Scrum. It is a Scrum Master's job to ensure all Scrum ceremonies being conducted on time and participated by all the required people as per the scrum guide. The SM has to ensure that the Daily Scrum is conducted regularly and actively participated by the team.

#### More Information:

There are several online tools that can be used to do scrum for your team:

- [Scrum Do](https://www.scrumdo.com/) 
- [Asana](http://www.asana.com)
- [Trello](http://trello.com)
- [Monday](https://monday.com)
- [Basecamp](https://basecamp.com)
- [Airtable](https://airtable.com)
- [SmartSheet](https://www.smartsheet.com)

Here are some more resources:

- [Why Scrum](https://www.scrumalliance.org/why-scrum) from The Scrum Alliance
- [Scrum Guide](http://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html) from Scrum.org
- [Doing vs Being Agile](http://agilitrix.com/2016/04/doing-agile-vs-being-agile/)
