---
id: 69fd80a1798f22441459a70f
title: Python Installation Review
challengeType: 31
dashedName: review-python-installation
---

# --description--

## Python in Your Local Environment

- **Installation**: The best way to install Python on Windows, Mac, and Linux is to download the installer from the official Python website (`https://www.python.org/`).
- **Terminal**: A text-based interface that lets you interact with your computer by typing commands. Each operating system comes with a default terminal app. On macOS, you can use the Terminal app. On Windows, you can use Command Prompt or PowerShell. On Linux, each desktop environment has its own default terminal app, like GNOME Terminal or Konsole.
- **IDE**: IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment and it has features including a code editor, testing tools, a terminal and more.
- **Popular Code Editors and IDEs for Python**: VS Code, PyCharm, and Spyder
- **Running Code Locally**: To run Python code, you have a few options. The first option is to click on the run button in VS Code which looks like a play button located in the upper right hand corner. That will open a terminal and run your Python script there.

Another option is to open a terminal and manually run the program. Here is an example to run a program called `main.py`:

```bash
python main.py
```

You must run this command from the folder where `main.py` is saved. For example, if `main.py` is inside a folder called `python-projects`, first use the following in the terminal:

```bash
cd python-projects
```

Then run:

```bash
python main.py
```

## Using the Python Interactive Shell

- **Definition**: An interactive shell is a program that lets you type commands one at a time and see the results. Open up a terminal app and type in `python` and press `Enter`. This will start a Python interactive shell. The `>>>` symbol means Python is waiting for you to type a command. Try printing `"Hello, world!"` to the terminal:

```bash
print("Hello, world!")
```

You should see the text appear like this:

```bash
>>> print("Hello, world!")
Hello, world!
```

After the text is printed, Python goes back to the following:

```bash
>>>
```

This means you can type in another command.

- **Read, Evaluate, Print, Loop cycle (REPL)**: Whenever you type in commands, the interpreter will read the input, evaluate it, print the result and loop back to show the `>>>` so you can type more commands.

# --assignment--

Review the Python Installation topics and concepts.
