guide/english/python/what-is-python-used-for/index.md, before:

---
title: What Is Python Used for
---

## What Is Python Used for

Python can easily be used for small, large, online and offline projects. The best options for utilizing Python are web development, simple scripting and data analysis.
Below are a few examples of what Python will let you do:

##### Web Development:
You can use Python to create web applications on many levels of complexity. There are many excellent Python web frameworks, including Pyramid, Django and Flask, to name
a few.

##### Data Science / Analysis:

Python is the leading language of choice for many data scientists. Python has grown in popularity within the field due to the availability of many excellent libraries
focused on data analysis (for example NumPy and Pandas) and data visualisation (for example Matplotlib and Seaborn). Python really made Data crunching
fun thanks to the wide selection of libraries available. Ipython with JupyterLab is another form of Python that improves the usage of Python in the field of data science.

##### Automation:
Python is a very flexible language that can be used to automate boring or repetitive tasks. System administrators often use it by writing scripts which can be easily
executed from the terminal. Python can also be used to create bots which automate some of our daily tasks.

##### Artificial Intelligence:
Python is also used extensively in the growing field of Artificial Intelligence (AI). Google selected Python to be one of the first well-supported programming languages
for training and interacting with models using Tensorflow.

#### Mobile app development:
Mobile apps and games can be created with python using Kivy, Pygame and PyQt.

#### Security And Networking:
Python is used to build Networking tools and security-tools that are widely used.Python's remote automation is the most secured, fast and efficient for cloud-testing
of frameworks, that's why professional developers use python for making most secured frameworks and for socket-programmings.

##### Machine Learning, Deep Learning:
Python is one of the best languages suited for machine learning, deep learning and data analytics with a stronghold in all of them.

There are specialized languages best suited for various role such as R and MATLAB but when it comes to overlapping fields of applications python wins hands down due to
its flexibility and rapid prototyping and availability of libraries.

#### Telegram Bots Development
You can use Python and some Python-libraries for developing your own <a href='https://core.telegram.org/bots' target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Telegram Bots</a>

#### Discord Bots Development
You can use Python and some Python-libraries for developing <a href='https://github.com/discord-python/hacktoberbot' target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Discord Bots</a>

#### Data Gathering by crawling and scraping
Python could also be used by parse pages source codes and retrieve its data. Using some python modules, such as: Scrapy and also (for some reasons and pages which uses javascript) Selenium, should do the trick!

#### More Information:
Here's a <a href='https://www.python.org/about/apps/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>link</a> to a section of the official Python website describing its various applications.

#### Python is generally used for 

* Web & Internet Development
* Educational Advancment
* Scientific Studies/Computing
* Desktop development
* Numeric Computing
* Software development
* Business Application development
* Machine Learning
* IOT
* Game Development
* Rapid Prototyping
* Browser Automation
* Data analysis
* Scraping data from websites
* Image Processing
## Why python has got such a wide range of usage?
* Python  has got many packages to work with, some ranging for aerospace research to mathematics. 
*Secondly for choosing to be a part of the open source community.
  Yes! Python is Open-source. 
  * For it's simple and elegant syntax.
  *There are many built-in functions because of which python codes are small in size than compared with other codes which       are same in context but written in different language.
  * Python also supports Object-Oriented programming fashion.
  Thus these things add on for the popularity of Python in various communities.

#### Some articles covering the usability of python

* <a href='http://www.dummies.com/programming/python/10-major-uses-of-python/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>10 Major Uses of Python</a>
* <a href='https://www.python.org/about/apps/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Applications for Python</a>
* <a href='https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3043085/where-is-python-language-used' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Where is the Python Language Used?</a>
* <a href='https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1909512/what-is-python-used-for' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>What is Python used for?</a>


The official package index for python is <a href='https://pypi.python.org/pypi' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>here</a>.

[training and interacting with models]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35677724/tensorflow-why-was-python-the-chosen-language

Commit message:

Network Testing
Added another heading. Network Testing.

guide/english/python/what-is-python-used-for/index.md, after:

---
title: What Is Python Used for
---

## What Is Python Used for

Python can easily be used for small, large, online and offline projects. The best options for utilizing Python are web development, simple scripting and data analysis.
Below are a few examples of what Python will let you do:

##### Web Development:
You can use Python to create web applications on many levels of complexity. There are many excellent Python web frameworks, including Pyramid, Django and Flask, to name
a few.

##### Data Science / Analysis:

Python is the leading language of choice for many data scientists. Python has grown in popularity within the field due to the availability of many excellent libraries
focused on data analysis (for example NumPy and Pandas) and data visualisation (for example Matplotlib and Seaborn). Python really made Data crunching
fun thanks to the wide selection of libraries available. Ipython with JupyterLab is another form of Python that improves the usage of Python in the field of data science.

##### Automation:
Python is a very flexible language that can be used to automate boring or repetitive tasks. System administrators often use it by writing scripts which can be easily
executed from the terminal. Python can also be used to create bots which automate some of our daily tasks.

##### Artificial Intelligence:
Python is also used extensively in the growing field of Artificial Intelligence (AI). Google selected Python to be one of the first well-supported programming languages
for training and interacting with models using Tensorflow.

#### Mobile app development:
Mobile apps and games can be created with python using Kivy, Pygame and PyQt.

#### Security And Networking:
Python is used to build Networking tools and security-tools that are widely used.Python's remote automation is the most secured, fast and efficient for cloud-testing
of frameworks, that's why professional developers use python for making most secured frameworks and for socket-programmings.

##### Network Testing
Python can be used in network testing for packet generation. Generation of different streams of traffic and traffic replay can be performed using Scapy. This can be particularly useful in generation of different types of packet streams like VoIP, video, data for QoS testing.

##### Machine Learning, Deep Learning:
Python is one of the best languages suited for machine learning, deep learning and data analytics with a stronghold in all of them.

There are specialized languages best suited for various role such as R and MATLAB but when it comes to overlapping fields of applications python wins hands down due to
its flexibility and rapid prototyping and availability of libraries.

#### Telegram Bots Development
You can use Python and some Python-libraries for developing your own <a href='https://core.telegram.org/bots' target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Telegram Bots</a>

#### Discord Bots Development
You can use Python and some Python-libraries for developing <a href='https://github.com/discord-python/hacktoberbot' target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Discord Bots</a>

#### Data Gathering by crawling and scraping
Python could also be used by parse pages source codes and retrieve its data. Using some python modules, such as: Scrapy and also (for some reasons and pages which uses javascript) Selenium, should do the trick!

#### More Information:
Here's a <a href='https://www.python.org/about/apps/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>link</a> to a section of the official Python website describing its various applications.

#### Python is generally used for 

* Web & Internet Development
* Educational Advancment
* Scientific Studies/Computing
* Desktop development
* Numeric Computing
* Software development
* Business Application development
* Machine Learning
* IOT
* Game Development
* Rapid Prototyping
* Browser Automation
* Data analysis
* Scraping data from websites
* Image Processing
## Why python has got such a wide range of usage?
* Python  has got many packages to work with, some ranging for aerospace research to mathematics. 
*Secondly for choosing to be a part of the open source community.
  Yes! Python is Open-source. 
  * For it's simple and elegant syntax.
  *There are many built-in functions because of which python codes are small in size than compared with other codes which       are same in context but written in different language.
  * Python also supports Object-Oriented programming fashion.
  Thus these things add on for the popularity of Python in various communities.

#### Some articles covering the usability of python

* <a href='http://www.dummies.com/programming/python/10-major-uses-of-python/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>10 Major Uses of Python</a>
* <a href='https://www.python.org/about/apps/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Applications for Python</a>
* <a href='https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3043085/where-is-python-language-used' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Where is the Python Language Used?</a>
* <a href='https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1909512/what-is-python-used-for' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>What is Python used for?</a>


The official package index for python is <a href='https://pypi.python.org/pypi' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>here</a>.

[training and interacting with models]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35677724/tensorflow-why-was-python-the-chosen-language
