---
id: 66367e01e3c7bb33ca28dcff
title: Task 13
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-13
---

<!-- (Audio) Alice: Oh, I think I saw her. What does she do on the team? -->

# --description--

It's important to make a distinction between actions described in the `Simple Present` tense and those described in the `Present Continuous` tense. If you say `I work as a developer` (`Simple Present`), you want to inform the other person that this is your occupation. If you say `I am working on a project` (`Present Continuous`), you are informing the person what your current task or activity is.

In a question, you make this distinction by asking `What do you do?` (`Simple Present`, used to ask about a person's career or occupation) or `What are you doing?` (`Present Continuous`, used to ask about the other person's current activity). When referring to another person, use `What does he/she do?` or `What do they do?` (more general and avoids determining a gender to the other person) to know about another person's job and `What is he/she doing?` or `What are they doing?` to know about another person's activity at the moment.

# --question--

## --text--

Based on the explanation, what does Alice want to know about Lisa?

## --answers--

She wants to know if Lisa is married

### --feedback--

Lisa's marital status has nothing to do with Alice's question.

---

She wants to know what Alice is doing at the moment.

### --feedback--

If that was the case, she would use `What is he/she doing?` or `What are they doing?` instead.

---

She wants to know if Lisa is part of the team

### --feedback--

Even though the team is mentioned, that's not what Alice is asking about.

---

She wants to know Lisa's role in the team, what her job is

## --video-solution--

4

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company2-center.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Alice",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 0,
          "z": 1.4
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "4.3-1.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 15.08,
      "finishTimestamp": 17.48
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Alice",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Alice",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 3.4,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "Oh, I think I saw her. What does she do on the team?",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Alice",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 3.9
    }
  ]
}
```
