---
id: 664159dd319cc352e511b057
title: Task 75
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-75
---

<!-- (Audio) Maria: What happened? Bob: Well, you mentioned we need 10 pounds of chicken wings, but I thought we agreed on 20 pounds. -->

# --description--

`Pounds` are a unit of weight used to measure how heavy something is. For example, if a bag of apples weighs `2 pounds` (for those who use the metric system, approximately 1 `kilogram`), it means the apples are as heavy as that.

`Chicken wings` are a type of food made from the wings of a chicken. They are often cooked and eaten as a snack or meal, sometimes with sauce or seasoning.

`To agree on something` means that two or more people share the same opinion or decision about a specific thing. For example, if you and your friend both decide to go to the movies, you can say `I agree on going to the movies` to tell your friend you like the plan or idea.

# --questions--

## --text--

What seems to be the mix-up Bob talks about?

## --answers--

He imagined that Maria liked chicken wings like him

### --feedback--

The discussion is not about their likes or dislikes, but the amount of food to the party.

---

He thought each chicken cost 20 pounds instead of 10

### --feedback--

`Pounds`, here, does not refer to the UK currency, but to weight.

---

He believed Maria was a vegetarian and did not want chicken meat to be served at the party

### --feedback--

It's a company party, so they might have to tend to people with different dietary habits, not only vegetarians.

---

He thought that they had the same idea about the amount of `chicken wings` that would be served at the party.

## --video-solution--

4
