guide/english/html/tutorials/how-to-use-links/index.md, before:

---
title: How to Use Links
---
## How to Use Links

In HTML you can use the `<a>` tag to create a link. For example you can write `<a href="https://www.freecodecamp.org/">freeCodeCamp</a>` to create a link to freeCodeCamp's website.

Links are found in nearly all web pages. Links allow users to click their way from page to page.

HTML links are hyperlinks. You can click on a link and jump to another document.

When you move the mouse over a link, the mouse arrow will turn into a little hand.

Note: A link does not have to be text. It can be an image or any other HTML element.

In HTML, links are defined with the <a> tag:
  
```html
<a href="url">link text</a>
```

Example

```html
<a href="https://www.freecodecamp.org/">Visit our site for tutorials</a>
```

The href attribute specifies the destination address (https://www.freecodecamp.org) of the link.

The link text is the visible part (Visit our site for tutorials).

Clicking on the link text will send you to the specified address.

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->
* [MDN - HTML <a> Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a)

Commit message:

Updated the text and examples
Rewrote the text to be more descriptive and concise
Added an example for links in images

guide/english/html/tutorials/how-to-use-links/index.md, after:

---
title: How to Use Links
---
## How to Use Links

Links are found in many webpages and its purpose is to allow users to visit other webpages.

<br/>In HTML, you can use the `<a>` tag to create a hyperlink. 

```html
<a href="url">link text</a>
```
The href attribute is very important, as it defines what the destination address is. 
<br/>The link text is the actual visable text.


<br/>For example, if you wanted something to link to the freeCodeCamp website, you could type:
```html
<a href="https://www.freecodecamp.org/">freeCodeCamp</a>
```
When run, this will display the text "freeCodeCamp", but it links to the website `"https://www.freecodecamp.org"`. Clicking on the text will send you to the specified address. Neat!

### Links in images

Links don't need to only be text. You can add a link to an image as well!

```html
<a href="https://www.freecodecamp.org"
   <img src="freecodecamp.png" alt = "freeCodeCamp's logo">
</a>
```

What we do here is we put an <img> tag inside of an <a> tag. This allows us to click the image to go to the link, which is `https://www.freecodecamp.org`. Double neato!

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->
* [MDN - HTML <a> Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a)
