---
id: 6620d3003ddaf50aac1bc76d
title: Task 16
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-16
---

# --description--

A `statement` in programming is a line of code that performs a specific action. For example, `print("Hello World")` is a statement that displays text.

A `condition` is a test in code that checks if something is true or false. For instance, `if x > 5` checks if "x" is greater than 5.

A `conditional` is generally an adjective referring to something that depends on a `condition` or `conditions`. In programming, it is used to describe any expression or feature that involves logical `conditions`. It's not limited to explicit "if-then" structure but can also refer to any setup that alters behavior based on `conditions`, including loops or even ternary operators.

A `conditional statement` is a statement that only runs if a certain `condition` is true. For example, `if x > 5: print("Large")` is a `conditional statement`. It prints `Large` only if `x` is greater than 5.

# --question--

## --text--

What is a `conditional statement` in programming?

## --answers--

A line of code that runs without checking any `conditions`

### --feedback--

A `conditional statement` does involve checking `conditions`; it's not a line of code that runs without any checks.

---

A test to see if a program is working correctly

### --feedback--

While a `conditional statement` can help check how a program works, it's primarily used to run code based on `conditions`, not to test the program.

---

A statement that outputs a `condition`

### --feedback--

A `conditional statement` uses a `condition` to decide whether to execute, but it doesn't output a `condition` itself.

---

A statement that only executes if a certain `condition` is true

## --video-solution--

4
