guide/english/accessibility/accessibility-tools-for-web-developers/index.md, before:

---
title: Accessibility Tools for Web Developers
---
## Accessibility Tools for Web Developers

There are many tools and online resources that can help you to ensure that your web application meets all of the accessibility requirements.

### General 

- **<a href='https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/accessibility-developer-t/fpkknkljclfencbdbgkenhalefipecmb?hl=en' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Accessibility Developer Tools</a>**

   This is a Google Chrome extension that will add a new Accessibility sidebar pane in the Elements tab to the Chrome Developer tools. This new pane will display any properties that are relevant to the accessibility aspect of the element that you are currently inspecting. This extension also adds an accessibility audit that can be used to check whether the current web page violates any accessibility rules. 


- **<a href='https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/axe/lhdoppojpmngadmnindnejefpokejbdd?hl=en-US' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>aXe</a>**
   
   This Google Chrome extension can find accessibility defects on your web page.

- **<a href='http://khan.github.io/tota11y/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>tota11y</a>**

   An accessibility visualization toolkit that checks how your website performs with assistive technologies.


- **<a href='https://www.accesslint.com' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>AccessLint</a>**

   A GitHub app that checks your pull requests for accessibility issues.


### Color Contrast

- **<a href='http://colorsafe.co' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Color Safe Palette Generator</a>**

   This website can help you to create a color palette that is based on the WCAG guidelines for text and background contrast ratios.


- **<a href='http://www.checkmycolours.com' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Check My Colours</a>**

   A website for checking if your existing website meets the accessibility requirements for color and contrast.


- **<a href='http://colororacle.org' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Color Oracle</a>**

   An application that simulates color blindness. It is available on Windows, Mac and Linux.


- **<a href='https://toolness.github.io/accessible-color-matrix/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Accessible Color Palette Builder</a>**

   This website allows you to edit a color palette and will create a table showing all of the possible color combinations, telling you which ones are accessible and which combinations to avoid using.


***

#### More Reources
You can find many more tools for accessible web design on <a href='http://www.d.umn.edu/itss/training/online/webdesign/tools.html' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>this list</a> made by the University of Minnesota Duluth.

Commit message:

A website that checks the site is accessible according to the W3C Accessibility Guidelines

guide/english/accessibility/accessibility-tools-for-web-developers/index.md, after:

---
title: Accessibility Tools for Web Developers
---
## Accessibility Tools for Web Developers

There are many tools and online resources that can help you to ensure that your web application meets all of the accessibility requirements.

### General 

- **<a href='https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/accessibility-developer-t/fpkknkljclfencbdbgkenhalefipecmb?hl=en' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Accessibility Developer Tools</a>**

   This is a Google Chrome extension that will add a new Accessibility sidebar pane in the Elements tab to the Chrome Developer tools. This new pane will display any properties that are relevant to the accessibility aspect of the element that you are currently inspecting. This extension also adds an accessibility audit that can be used to check whether the current web page violates any accessibility rules. 


- **<a href='https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/axe/lhdoppojpmngadmnindnejefpokejbdd?hl=en-US' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>aXe</a>**
   
   This Google Chrome extension can find accessibility defects on your web page.

- **<a href='http://khan.github.io/tota11y/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>tota11y</a>**

   An accessibility visualization toolkit that checks how your website performs with assistive technologies.


- **<a href='https://www.accesslint.com' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>AccessLint</a>**

   A GitHub app that checks your pull requests for accessibility issues.


- **<a href='https://www.boia.org/w3c-tools-services-a11y ' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Website Accessibility Checker</a>**

   A website that checks the site is accessible according to the W3C Accessibility Guidelines.


### Color Contrast

- **<a href='http://colorsafe.co' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Color Safe Palette Generator</a>**

   This website can help you to create a color palette that is based on the WCAG guidelines for text and background contrast ratios.


- **<a href='http://www.checkmycolours.com' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Check My Colours</a>**

   A website for checking if your existing website meets the accessibility requirements for color and contrast.


- **<a href='http://colororacle.org' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Color Oracle</a>**

   An application that simulates color blindness. It is available on Windows, Mac and Linux.


- **<a href='https://toolness.github.io/accessible-color-matrix/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Accessible Color Palette Builder</a>**

   This website allows you to edit a color palette and will create a table showing all of the possible color combinations, telling you which ones are accessible and which combinations to avoid using.


***

#### More Reources
You can find many more tools for accessible web design on <a href='http://www.d.umn.edu/itss/training/online/webdesign/tools.html' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>this list</a> made by the University of Minnesota Duluth.
