---
id: 66b57e127321d8524c7ddda7
title: Task 94
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-94
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

A couple of days after the conversation with Anna, Brian sent this email to the team:

`Email subject: Cybersecurity Training Session`

`Dear Team,`

`I want to update you on our next cybersecurity training session.`

`Details:`

`- Topic: Password Security and Phishing`

`- Date: August 15, 2024`

`- Time: 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM`

`- Location: Google Meet`

`Why Attend?`

`As you know, our company has recently faced some security threats. We're adding a section on phishing, using real-life scenarios to ensure everyone uses strong passwords and protects our data.`

`Attendance:`

`Attendance is mandatory. If you can't attend, please inform your manager.`

`Looking forward to seeing you all.`

`Best regards,`

`Brian`

Why is Brian sending this email?

## --answers--

To reschedule a Cybersecurity training session.

### --feedback--

Brian doesn't mention changing the dates.

---

To inform the team about an upcoming cybersecurity training session.

---

To cancel a cybersecurity training session.

### --feedback--

Brian doesn't mention cancelling.

---

To set up a cybersecurity party.

### --feedback--

Brian doesn't mention a party.

## --video-solution--

2

# --explanation--

Look at the email subject `Cybersecurity Training Session` and the first line `I want to update you on our next cybersecurity training session`. These show that Brian is informing the team about the upcoming session. There's no mention of rescheduling, so the correct answer focuses on providing information about the training.
