---
id: 66c4e019a6cbfa3210603aef
title: Task 38
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-38
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`Where can I`, `Is that right`, `How many` , `Do you know if`,`How does that`, `Does your app`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Bob: I hear you're going to a Hackathon this weekend. BLANK?`

`Lisa: Yes, I am. It looks like it's going to be a great event.`

`Bob: What project do you plan to work on?`

`Lisa: We plan to develop a new app for real-time project collaboration. BLANK sound to you?`

`Bob: Interesting! Who's on your team?`

`Lisa: A couple of developers from our branch in Seattle, and a UX designer I've collaborated with before. BLANK we have any similar projects coming up here?`

`Bob: Actually, we might. BLANK have a potential name yet?`

`Lisa: We're thinking of calling it "CollabReal."`

`Bob: BLANK people usually participate in these events?`

`Lisa: Typically around fifty. Why? Do you want to join?`

`Bob: Maybe. BLANK find more information?`

`Lisa: I can help you sign up. When are you available to go over the form?`

`Bob: How about tomorrow during lunch?`

`Lisa: Works for me.`

## --blanks--

`Is that right`

### --feedback--

These three words together are used to confirm if something heard is correct. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`How does that`

### --feedback--

These three words together are used to ask for someone's opinion about something. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`Do you know if`

### --feedback--

These four words together are used to ask if someone has knowledge about a certain fact or situation. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`Does your app`

### --feedback--

These three words together are used to ask about a feature or characteristic of the app. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`How many`

### --feedback--

These two words together are used to ask about the number of people or things. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`Where can I`

### --feedback--

These three words together are used to ask for the location or source of something. The first letter of the first and last word are capitalized.
