---
id: 6910932c6c4e812ca246cdae
title: Task 17
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-17
lang: es
---

<!-- NO AUDIO -->

# --instructions--

This task has no audio. Complete the dialogue below.

Florencia is preparing for a trip to Argentina. She wants to practice how to introduce herself to others and know more about them. Help her find the best words for her conversation with her hypothetical new friend, Federico.

Write these words in the correct spot:

`de`, `soy`, `nombre`, `igualmente`, `y`, `dónde`, `vos`, `años`, `encantada`, `cuántos`

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Florencia: Hola, buenas tardes. Mi BLANK es Florencia. ¿Cómo te llamas?`

`Federico: Mi nombre es Federico. ¿De BLANK eres?`

`Florencia: BLANK de El Salvador. ¿BLANK BLANK?`

`Federico: Soy BLANK Argentina.`

`Florencia: ¿BLANK años tienes?`

`Federico: Tengo treinta y seis BLANK. ¿Y vos?`

`Florencia: Tengo treinta y cinco años. BLANK de conocerte, Federico.`

`Federico: BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`nombre`

### --feedback--

This word means "name".

---

`dónde`

### --feedback--

This word means "where".

---

`Soy`

### --feedback--

This is the "yo" (`I`) form of the verb "to be" (`ser`).

---

`y`

### --feedback--

This word means "and".

---

`vos`

### --feedback--

This is a regional variation of the informal personal pronoun "you".

---

`de`

### --feedback--

This preposition means "from".

---

`cuántos`

### --feedback--

This word means "how many".

---

`años`

### --feedback--

This word means "years".

---

`encantada`

### --feedback--

This word means "delighted".

---

`Igualmente`

### --feedback--

This word means "likewise".

# --explanation--

This dialogue between Florencia and Federico reviews fundamental introductory phrases:

`Mi nombre es` and `Me llamo` are alternative ways to say your name. 

`¿De dónde eres?` means "Where are you from?". This question is answered with **`Soy de` + [country]**.

`¿Cuántos años tienes?` means "How old are you?". This question is answered with  **`Tengo` + [number] + `años`**.

`¿Y vos?` means "And you?" and it's used to return a question. It's a regional variation of `¿Y tú?` ("And you?") common in Central American countries like El Salvador, and some South American countries, like Argentina.

`Encantada` ("Nice to meet you") and `Igualmente` ("Likewise") are polite phrases used during introductions.
