---
id: 69108a0006dd331d159c51f3
title: Task 14
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-14
lang: es
---

<!-- NO AUDIO -->

# --instructions--

This task doesn't have audio. Complete the dialogue below.

Camila and Mateo are talking about where they are from.

Write these words in the correct spot:

`cuántos`, `puertorriqueño`, `de`, `gusto`, `colombiana`, `dónde`, `años`

There are more words than blanks. You won't need to use all words.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Mateo: Mucho BLANK. ¿De BLANK eres?`

`Camila: Soy BLANK Colombia. Soy BLANK. ¿Y tú?`

`Mateo: Soy de Puerto Rico. Soy BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`gusto`

### --feedback--

This word completes the phrase "Nice to meet you".

---

`dónde`

### --feedback--

This word means "where" and it's used to ask about origin.

---

`de`

### --feedback--

This preposition means "from".

---

`colombiana`

### --feedback--

This is the feminine nationality of someone who is from Colombia.

---

`puertorriqueño`

### --feedback--

This is the masculine nationality of someone who is from Puerto Rico.

# --explanation--

This dialogue between Mateo and Camila has common phrases and questions about origin and nationality. 

The phrase `Mucho gusto` ("Nice to meet you") is used to start the conversation politely.

`¿De dónde eres?` means "Where are you from?" (informal).

**`Soy de` + [country]** means "I am from + [country]".

`Colombiana` is the feminine form of the nationality of someone who is from Colombia. The masculine form is `colombiano`.

`Puertorriqueño` is the masculine form of the nationality of someone who is from Puerto Rico. The feminine form is `puertorriqueña`.
