guide/english/bootstrap/panels/index.md, before:

---
title: Panels
---
## Panels

The Bootstrap framework provides you with a feature called panels. A panel is a box that has a styled heading and then a body that allows you to display information in an organized manner, through a set of one or more panels.

#### How To Use:
To use Bootstrap Panels you add a `<div>` with a class for your type of panel (class `panel panel-default` or something similar, see the panel examples for more information.) and then two nested `<div>` tags, one for the heading (class `panel panel-heading`) and one for the body (class `panel panel-body`). You may find that the Code Example is easier to understand than a written explanation.

**Code Example**
```html
<div class="panel panel-primary">
  <div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Primary</div>
  <div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the primary panel style.</div>
</div>
```

#### Panel Examples:
This is a set of examples that shows each type of panel. The CSS Class is displayed above each example.

`panel panel-default`
<div class="panel panel-default">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Default</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the default panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-primary`
<div class="panel panel-primary">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Primary</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the primary panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-success`
<div class="panel panel-success">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Success</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the success panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-info`
<div class="panel panel-info">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Info</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the info panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-warning`
<div class="panel panel-warning">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Warning</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the warning panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-danger`
<div class="panel panel-danger">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Danger</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the danger panel style.</div>
</div>

### More Information

- [Bootstrap dropdown documentation](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/dropdowns/)

Commit message:

Added note about dropping of panels in v4

guide/english/bootstrap/panels/index.md, after:

---
title: Panels
---
## Panels

The Bootstrap framework provides you with a feature called panels. A panel is a box that has a styled heading and then a body that allows you to display information in an organized manner, through a set of one or more panels.

Panels were dropped in Bootstrap 4 in favor of cards, as were thumbnails and wells. [Relevant section of the Bootstrap 4 migration guide here](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/migration/#panels)

#### How To Use:
To use Bootstrap Panels you add a `<div>` with a class for your type of panel (class `panel panel-default` or something similar, see the panel examples for more information.) and then two nested `<div>` tags, one for the heading (class `panel panel-heading`) and one for the body (class `panel panel-body`). You may find that the Code Example is easier to understand than a written explanation.

**Code Example**
```html
<div class="panel panel-primary">
  <div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Primary</div>
  <div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the primary panel style.</div>
</div>
```

#### Panel Examples:
This is a set of examples that shows each type of panel. The CSS Class is displayed above each example.

`panel panel-default`
<div class="panel panel-default">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Default</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the default panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-primary`
<div class="panel panel-primary">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Primary</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the primary panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-success`
<div class="panel panel-success">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Success</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the success panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-info`
<div class="panel panel-info">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Info</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the info panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-warning`
<div class="panel panel-warning">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Warning</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the warning panel style.</div>
</div>

`panel panel-danger`
<div class="panel panel-danger">
<div class="panel panel-heading">Panel Danger</div>
<div class="panel panel-body"> This is a panel with the danger panel style.</div>
</div>

### More Information

- [Bootstrap dropdown documentation](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/dropdowns/)
