guide/english/sql/sql-having-clause/index.md, before:

---
title: SQL Having Clause
---

## SQL Having Clause
HAVING gives the DBA or SQL-using programmer a way to filter the data aggregated by the GROUP BY clause so that the user gets a limited set of records to view. 

### Example of use
The HAVING clause is like the WHERE clause, exept it acts on the grouped data. In this case, the user will only see the largest amounts.

This data is from the campaign contributions data we've been using in some of these guides.

This SQL statement is answering the question: "which candidates received the largest total contributions in 2016 BUT only those that had more than 8$20 Million USD?"

Ordering this data set in a descending (DESC) order places the candidates with the largest total contributions at the top of the list.

```sql
SELECT Candidate, Election_year, sum(Total_$), count(*)
FROM combined_party_data
WHERE Election_year = 2016
GROUP BY Candidate, Election_year -- this tells the DBMS to summarize by these two columns
HAVING sum(Total_$) > 20000000  -- limits the rows presented from the summary of money ($20 Million USD)
ORDER BY sum(Total_$) DESC; -- orders the presented rows with the largest ones first.
```

```text
+--------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------+
| Candidate                                        | Election_year | sum(Total_$)      | count(*) |
+--------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------+
| CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM & KAINE, TIMOTHY M (TIM) |          2016 | 568135094.4400003 |      126 |
| TRUMP, DONALD J & PENCE, MICHAEL R (MIKE)        |          2016 | 366853142.7899999 |      114 |
| SANDERS, BERNARD (BERNIE)                        |          2016 |      258562022.17 |      122 |
| CRUZ, RAFAEL EDWARD (TED)                        |          2016 | 93430700.29000005 |      104 |
| CARSON, BENJAMIN S (BEN)                         |          2016 | 62202411.12999996 |       93 |
| RUBIO, MARCO ANTONIO                             |          2016 |        44384313.9 |      106 |
| BUSH, JOHN ELLIS (JEB)                           |          2016 |       34606731.78 |       97 |
+--------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------+
7 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```


As with all of these SQL things there is MUCH MORE to them than what's in this introductory guide.  

I hope this at least gives you enough to get started.  

Please see the manual for your database manager and have fun trying different options yourself.

Commit message:

Added a line in "SQL Having Clause" part.

guide/english/sql/sql-having-clause/index.md, after:

---
title: SQL Having Clause
---

## SQL Having Clause
HAVING gives the DBA or SQL-using programmer a way to filter the data aggregated by the GROUP BY clause so that the user gets a limited set of records to view. 
HAVING clause sets the condition for group rows (created by the GROUP BY clause) after the GROUP BY clause applied.

### Example of use
The HAVING clause is like the WHERE clause, exept it acts on the grouped data. In this case, the user will only see the largest amounts.

This data is from the campaign contributions data we've been using in some of these guides.

This SQL statement is answering the question: "which candidates received the largest total contributions in 2016 BUT only those that had more than 8$20 Million USD?"

Ordering this data set in a descending (DESC) order places the candidates with the largest total contributions at the top of the list.

```sql
SELECT Candidate, Election_year, sum(Total_$), count(*)
FROM combined_party_data
WHERE Election_year = 2016
GROUP BY Candidate, Election_year -- this tells the DBMS to summarize by these two columns
HAVING sum(Total_$) > 20000000  -- limits the rows presented from the summary of money ($20 Million USD)
ORDER BY sum(Total_$) DESC; -- orders the presented rows with the largest ones first.
```

```text
+--------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------+
| Candidate                                        | Election_year | sum(Total_$)      | count(*) |
+--------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------+
| CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM & KAINE, TIMOTHY M (TIM) |          2016 | 568135094.4400003 |      126 |
| TRUMP, DONALD J & PENCE, MICHAEL R (MIKE)        |          2016 | 366853142.7899999 |      114 |
| SANDERS, BERNARD (BERNIE)                        |          2016 |      258562022.17 |      122 |
| CRUZ, RAFAEL EDWARD (TED)                        |          2016 | 93430700.29000005 |      104 |
| CARSON, BENJAMIN S (BEN)                         |          2016 | 62202411.12999996 |       93 |
| RUBIO, MARCO ANTONIO                             |          2016 |        44384313.9 |      106 |
| BUSH, JOHN ELLIS (JEB)                           |          2016 |       34606731.78 |       97 |
+--------------------------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+----------+
7 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```


As with all of these SQL things there is MUCH MORE to them than what's in this introductory guide.  

I hope this at least gives you enough to get started.  

Please see the manual for your database manager and have fun trying different options yourself.
