---
id: 67c73596502237018582f2ed
title: Task 152
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-152
lang: en-US
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.  

# --instructions--  

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:  

`introduce`, `it's true`, `pleasure`, `who's`, `come on`, `workmate`, and `this is`.

# --fillInTheBlank--  

## --sentence--  

`Sophie: Oh, look BLANK here! Hey, Brian. How is everything?`  

`Brian: Sophie! Great to see you here.`  

`Sophie: You, too. Brian, let me BLANK you to Tom. Tom, this is Brian. He's a web developer. Brian, BLANK Tom. He's our new graphic designer and he is from Texas.`  

`Brian: It's a BLANK to meet you, Tom. Sophie is a great BLANK. She's very kind and helpful.`  

`Sophie: Oh, BLANK, Brian!`  

`Brian: But BLANK. She's the person to go to if you need help!`  

## --blanks--  

`who's`  

### --feedback--

This is the contraction of `who is`.

---

`introduce`  

### --feedback--

To formally present one person to another.  

---

`this is`  

### --feedback--

This is used to introduce someone. It begins with a determiner.

---

`pleasure`  

### --feedback--

This noun expresses enjoyment or politeness when meeting someone.  

---

`workmate`  

### --feedback--

This noun refers to a colleague or someone you work with.  

---

`come on`  

### --feedback--

A phrase used to ask someone to stop doing something, in a friendly way.

---

`it's true`  

### --feedback--

An expression to confirm a statement. It begins with the contraction of `it` and `is`, followed by an adjective that means "correct" or "factual".
