---
id: 637f4e3672c65bc8e73dfe23
videoId: V8UAEoOvqFg
title: HTML Foundations Lesson F
challengeType: 15
dashedName: html-foundations-lesson-f
---
# --description--

The final element needed to complete the HTML boilerplate is the `<body>` element. This is where all the content that will be displayed to users will go - the text, images, lists, links, and so on.

To complete the boilerplate, add a `body` element to the `index.html` file. The `body` element also goes within the `html` element and is always below the `head` element, like so:

# --assignment--

Watch and follow along to Kevin Powell’s brilliant Building your first web page video above.

---

Build some muscle memory by deleting the contents of the `index.html` file and trying to write out all the boilerplate again from memory. Don’t worry if you have to peek at the lesson content the first few times if you get stuck. Just keep going until you can do it a couple of times from memory.

---

Run your boilerplate through this [HTML validator](https://www.freeformatter.com/html-validator.html). Validators ensure your markup is correct and are an excellent learning tool, as they provide feedback on syntax errors you may be making often and aren’t aware of, such as missing closing tags and extra spaces in your HTML.

# --questions--

## --text--

What is the purpose of the `body` element?

## --answers--

This is where all important information about the webpage is displayed such as the `title` and `meta` tags.

---

This is where you tell the browser how to render the webpage correctly.

---

This is where all content will be displayed on the page such images, text, and links.


## --video-solution--

3
