---
id: 6797f713f4390b0d8ad31a98
title: Task 32
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-32
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

These are Bob's notes for Jessica's performance review session:

`Date: February 11, 2025`

`Collaborator: Jessica`

`Reviewer: Bob, Development Team Manager`

`Strengths`

- `Problem Detection: Effective at identifying critical software issues.`

- `Impact on Team: Her QA skills prevent bugs from progressing to production, which helps with overall team efficiency.`

`Areas for improvement`

- `Documentation: Needs to provide more complete and detailed documentation.`

`Goals for the Next Quarter`

- `Documentation Quality: Improve documentation to make it easier to follow her work.`

- `Maintain QA Excellence: Her QA skills are excellent. She should continue working on them for the benefit of the team.`

`Closing Remarks`

`Jessica is a valuable team member with room for growth in documentation practices.`

`Improving in this area will enhance her contributions and team efficiency.`

Whose performance review session is this and who is reviewing?

## --answers--

Jessica is reviewing Bob's work.

### --feedback--

Read the header again to see who the collaborator and the reviewer are.

---

Bob is reviewing Jessica's QA work.

---

Maria is reviewing Bob's work.

### --feedback--

Read the header again to see who the collaborator and the reviewer are.

---

Sophie is reviewing Tom's design work.

### --feedback--

Read the header again to see who the collaborator and the reviewer are.

## --video-solution--

2

# --explanation--

At the very beginning of the meeting notes, you can find the date when the performance review takes place, as well as the collaborator being reviewed and who the reviewer is. Check that part to get the correct answer for this question.
