---
id: 6797fe2f33b6e128ab43b337
title: Task 34
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-34
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

These are Bob's notes for Jessica's performance review session:

`Date: February 11, 2025`

`Collaborator: Jessica`

`Reviewer: Bob, Development Team Manager`

`Strengths`

- `Problem Detection: Effective at identifying critical software issues.`

- `Impact on Team: Her QA skills prevent bugs from progressing to production, which helps with overall team efficiency.`

`Areas for improvement`

- `Documentation: Needs to provide more complete and detailed documentation.`

`Goals for the Next Quarter`

- `Documentation Quality: Improve documentation to make it easier to follow her work.`

- `Maintain QA Excellence: Her QA skills are excellent. She should continue working on them for the benefit of the team.`

`Closing Remarks`

`Jessica is a valuable team member with room for growth in documentation practices.`

`Improving in this area will enhance her contributions and team efficiency.`

Are there any aspects Jessica could improve?

## --answers--

Jessica does not focus much on documentation.

---

She could improve her issue detecting skills, as this is crucial for QA.

### --feedback--

That's actually one of her strengths, not a point for improvement.

---

She takes a long time to produce great documentation.

### --feedback--

Bob does not mention time in his comments.

---

Jessica is very detailed in documenting her work.

### --feedback--

That is actually a point for improvement for Jessica.

## --video-solution--

1

# --explanation--

To discover the points where a collaborator could be better, you should check the `Areas for improvement` section, where reviewers normally mention the things about the collaborator's work that could use some improvement. Check that section to find the correct answer for this question.
