---
id: 6798e13b614215ac31323664
title: Task 37
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-37
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

These are Bob's notes for Jessica's performance review session:

`Date: February 11, 2025`

`Collaborator: Jessica`

`Reviewer: Bob, Development Team Manager`

`Strengths`

- `Problem Detection: Effective at identifying critical software issues.`

- `Impact on Team: Her QA skills prevent bugs from progressing to production, which helps with overall team efficiency.`

`Areas for improvement`

- `Documentation: Needs to provide more complete and detailed documentation.`

`Goals for the Next Quarter`

- `Documentation Quality: Improve documentation to make it easier to follow her work.`

- `Maintain QA Excellence: Her QA skills are excellent. She should continue working on them for the benefit of the team.`

`Closing Remarks`

`Jessica is a valuable team member with room for growth in documentation practices.`

`Improving in this area will enhance her contributions and team efficiency.`

According to Bob's notes, is there anything Jessica should do about her QA skills for the next quarter?

## --answers--

She should learn a lot more about QA if she intends to keep on working there.

### --feedback--

Bob thinks her QA skills are excellent, so that is not the case.

---

She should start focusing on software development and abandon QA work altogether. 

### --feedback--

Bob sees her as a valuable member of the team and appreciates her QA work.

---

He thinks Jessica should focus exclusively on her documentation and not pay as much attention to QA tasks.

### --feedback--

Bob comments her QA skills are excellent. He probably wouldn't like her to stop doing what she does. 

---

He believes she should continue working on her QA skills, as they benefit the team a lot.

## --video-solution--

4

# --explanation--

When you are very good at a certain aspect of your work, managers usually do not tell you to stop focusing on that and concentrate on other parts. They will normally tell you to keep working on these skills so that you keep collaborating with your team as best as you can. Take this into consideration to answer this question.
