---
id: 6798df2c84a1dda606cf7591
title: Task 36
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-36
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

These are Bob's notes for Jessica's performance review session:

`Date: February 11, 2025`

`Collaborator: Jessica`

`Reviewer: Bob, Development Team Manager`

`Strengths`

- `Problem Detection: Effective at identifying critical software issues.`

- `Impact on Team: Her QA skills prevent bugs from progressing to production, which helps with overall team efficiency.`

`Areas for improvement`

- `Documentation: Needs to provide more complete and detailed documentation.`

`Goals for the Next Quarter`

- `Documentation Quality: Improve documentation to make it easier to follow her work.`

- `Maintain QA Excellence: Her QA skills are excellent. She should continue working on them for the benefit of the team.`

`Closing Remarks`

`Jessica is a valuable team member with room for growth in documentation practices.`

`Improving in this area will enhance her contributions and team efficiency.`

What does Bob think of Jessica's performance overall?

## --answers--

He thinks she has much to improve.

### --feedback--

Bob does not mention a lot to work on. There's only one improvement he believes the team could benefit from.

---

Bob does not see much value in the work Jessica does. 

### --feedback--

On the contrary. Bob sees her as a valuable member of the team.

---

He thinks she is important for the team and improving her documentation would make her contributions even better.

---

Bob believes she is the best collaborator in the team.

### --feedback--

Bob does not seem to make any evaluation concerning who the best collaborator is.

## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

To see what Bob comments about Jessica, you should check the `Closing Remarks` section, where reviewers normally add some final thoughts about the collaborators' overall performance. Check that section to find the correct answer for this question.
