---
id: 679bf6226184f76388d13292
title: Task 71
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-71
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Brian, Lisa felt like taking a course on conflict resolution in the workplace. Here's a brochure of a course she found:

`Mastering Conflict Resolution in the Workplace`

`- Find the Right Balance Between Debate & Progress!`

`Are disagreements slowing your team down? Do you struggle to meet deadlines because discussions go in circles? Healthy debate is valuable, but too much disagreement can stop real progress. Learn how to balance different perspectives while keeping projects on track!`

`What you'll learn:`

`> How to encourage productive discussions without delaying work`

`> Strategies for listening to feedback while staying focused`

`> The importance of making sure everyone feels heard and valued`

`> How to handle strong opinions and find common ground`

`> Techniques to work together efficiently and meet deadlines`

`Next session: [March 20th]`

`Location: [Online]`

`Perfect for: Team leaders, managers, and professionals who want to improve team dynamics`

`Don't let too much debate slow you down! Learn how to keep discussions focused and your team motivated.`

`Sign up today! [conflict_solvers@moogle.com]`

Who is the session ideal for?

## --answers--

Professionals who want to improve team dynamics, leaders, and managers

---

People looking for ways to improve their debate-winning skills

### --feedback--

There is no mention of winning debates in the brochure.

---

People who don't want disagreements to take place in a team

### --feedback--

Remember: some disagreement actually helps the team grow.

---

People who are very slow in their tasks and want to be faster

### --feedback--

The brochure does not mention that.

## --video-solution--

1

# --explanation--

By the end of the brochure, you'll find the line saying `Perfect for`, which indicates the target audience for the course. Check this line to answer to this question correctly.
