---
id: 679bf45646c8ac5193d426dd
title: Task 70
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-70
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Brian, Lisa felt like taking a course on conflict resolution in the workplace. Here's a brochure of a course she found:

`Mastering Conflict Resolution in the Workplace`

`- Find the Right Balance Between Debate & Progress!`

`Are disagreements slowing your team down? Do you struggle to meet deadlines because discussions go in circles? Healthy debate is valuable, but too much disagreement can stop real progress. Learn how to balance different perspectives while keeping projects on track!`

`What you'll learn:`

`> How to encourage productive discussions without delaying work`

`> Strategies for listening to feedback while staying focused`

`> The importance of making sure everyone feels heard and valued`

`> How to handle strong opinions and find common ground`

`> Techniques to work together efficiently and meet deadlines`

`Next session: [March 20th]`

`Location: [Online]`

`Perfect for: Team leaders, managers, and professionals who want to improve team dynamics`

`Don't let too much debate slow you down! Learn how to keep discussions focused and your team motivated.`

`Sign up today! [conflict_solvers@moogle.com]`

Where and how is the course going to be held?

## --answers--

In-person, at the team's company

### --feedback--

The course has a different structure.

---

Online and you can watch it when you want.

### --feedback--

There is a specific date in the brochure mentioning when the class takes place.

---

At the school's premises

### --feedback--

There is a part of the brochure that informs this course is not in person.

---

Online at specific dates

## --video-solution--

4

# --explanation--

By the end of the brochure, you'll find the lines `Next Session` and `Location`. Check those lines to be able to answer to this question correctly.
