---
id: 679d89199b330d41c35ce1c0
title: Task 121
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-121
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What you will read now is the email the client sent to Maria:

`Subject: Issues with Latest Update`

`Dear Maria,`

`I hope you're doing well. I wanted to reach out regarding the latest update. Unfortunately, I've noticed that some features aren't working as expected. Specifically, the search function seems significantly slower than before, and some buttons are unresponsive.`

`These issues are affecting our workflow, and I'm concerned about the impact on overall user experience. Could you please look into this and let me know if a fix is possible soon? Keeping me updated on any progress would be greatly appreciated.`

`Looking forward to your response.`

`Best regards,`

`Brian Richards`

`Vice-President at Epsilon Corp Ltd.`

What seems to be the problem with the latest update?

## --answers--

After installing it, some features stopped working as expected.

---

The file's too big to download.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention file sizes.

---

The update installed a virus in all the company's computers.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention viruses.

---

The update seems to be compatible with a different operational system. 

### --feedback--

The client does not mention compatibility issues.

## --video-solution--

1

# --explanation--

To answer this question, you should read what comes right after `Unfortunately`. Check what the client says about `features` to answer the question correctly.
