---
id: 679d8e61f8d2f477188ba97f
title: Task 125
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-125
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What you will read now is the email the client sent to Maria:

`Subject: Issues with Latest Update`

`Dear Maria,`

`I hope you're doing well. I wanted to reach out regarding the latest update. Unfortunately, I've noticed that some features aren't working as expected. Specifically, the search function seems significantly slower than before, and some buttons are unresponsive.`

`These issues are affecting our workflow, and I'm concerned about the impact on overall user experience. Could you please look into this and let me know if a fix is possible soon? Keeping me updated on any progress would be greatly appreciated.`

`Looking forward to your response.`

`Best regards,`

`Brian Richards`

`Vice-President at Epsilon Corp Ltd.`

The client also mentions something they would be really grateful for. What would that be?

## --answers--

That the next software made for the company is free of charges.

### --feedback--

The client does not mention any of this.

---

They would love it if the buttons had the same color as the company's logo.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention colors.

---

They would like to be kept informed on the progress of the fix.

---

The client would like to be informed of every update the software has via email.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention sending information to them via email.

## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

To answer this question, you should read the part where the client mentions something which would be `greatly appreciated`. That's where you will find this client's request. Read this line to answer this question correctly.
