guide/english/book-recommendations/python/index.md, before:

---
title: Books on Python Programming Language
---
 
 ### List of Books
 
 #### Think Python 2e
 
 A free (E-book) which covers the basics of Python. It's beginner friendly and a must for people who are new to programming!
 
- [Website](http://greenteapress.com/wp/think-python-2e/)
- [E-book](http://greenteapress.com/thinkpython2/html/index.html)(free)
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1491939362)
- ISBN-13: 978-1491939369
 
#### Learn Python 3 the Hard Way

Paid (Free ebook available) book which covers the basics of python. It's designed to get you started with python language and become familiar with its syntax and workings by the time you complete the book. 

- [Website](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/) (Buy from the creator | Includes video lessons)
- [E-book](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/python3/) (free)
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Learn-Python-Hard-Way-Introduction/dp/0134692888)
- ISBN-13: 978-0134692883
- ISBN-10: 0134692888


#### Black Hat Python: Python Programming for Hackers and Pentesters

Explore the darker side of Python and discover how to write network sniffers, manipulate packets, infect virtual machines and more.

- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Black-Hat-Python-Programming-Pentesters/dp/1593275900)
- ISBN-10: 1593275900

#### Programming Python

So you've covered the basics of Python?  You're now ready to discover the in-depth tutorials which cover the advanced programming aspects of Python. These include system administration, GUIs and the web.  Understand how Python is used in databases, networking, front-end scripting layers and more.

- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Programming-Python-Powerful-Object-Oriented/dp/0596158106)
- [O'Reilly](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596158118.do)
- ISBN-10: 0596158106
- ISBN-13: 978-0596158101

#### Data Science from Scratch: First Principles with Python

You'll learn many of the first princliples for data science tools and how algorithms work by implementing these from scratch.  If you have an aptitude for maths and some coding skills, you'll have a crash course in Python that includes the basics of algebra, statistics, and probability.  You'll learn how to implement models such as k-nearest Neighbors, Naive Bayes, linear and logistic regression, decision trees, neural networks and clustering. Discover recommender systems, natural lanuage processing, network analysis, MapReduce and databases.

- [O'Reilly](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920033400.do)
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Science-Scratch-Principles-Python/dp/149190142X)
- ISBN-10: 149190142X
- ISBN-13: 978-1491901427

*Automate The Boring Stuff With Python*
- Great book for beginners. Has interesting projects to practice Python.
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1593275994/)
- ISBN-10: 1593275994
- ISBN-13: 978-1593275990

*Python crash course 2e* (note that 3e is going to be published on April 2019)
- Paid book which gives concrete introduction to both programming and Python by the creation of projects.
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.fr/Python-Crash-Course-Hands-Project-Based/dp/1593276036/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1539459730&sr=8-1&keywords=python+crash+course)
- ISBN-10: 1593276036
- ISBN-13: 978-1593276034

#### Other Resources

- [Functional Programming in Python by David Mertz [OREILLY] [FREE]](https://www.oreilly.com/programming/free/files/functional-programming-python.pdf)
- [Python in Education by Nicholas H. Tollervey[OREILLY] [FREE]](https://www.oreilly.com/programming/free/files/python-in-education.pdf)
- [How to think like a Computer Scientist by Allen Downey[V 2.0.17] [FREE]](http://greenteapress.com/thinkpython/thinkpython.pdf)
- [A Byte of Python[FREE]](https://python.swaroopch.com)

Please feel free to add more that you have found useful!

Commit message:

Added A Smarter Way to Learn Python link

guide/english/book-recommendations/python/index.md, after:

---
title: Books on Python Programming Language
---
 
 ### List of Books
 
 #### Think Python 2e
 
 A free (E-book) which covers the basics of Python. It's beginner friendly and a must for people who are new to programming!
 
- [Website](http://greenteapress.com/wp/think-python-2e/)
- [E-book](http://greenteapress.com/thinkpython2/html/index.html)(free)
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1491939362)
- ISBN-13: 978-1491939369
 
#### Learn Python 3 the Hard Way

Paid (Free ebook available) book which covers the basics of python. It's designed to get you started with python language and become familiar with its syntax and workings by the time you complete the book. 

- [Website](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/) (Buy from the creator | Includes video lessons)
- [E-book](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/python3/) (free)
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Learn-Python-Hard-Way-Introduction/dp/0134692888)
- ISBN-13: 978-0134692883
- ISBN-10: 0134692888


#### Black Hat Python: Python Programming for Hackers and Pentesters

Explore the darker side of Python and discover how to write network sniffers, manipulate packets, infect virtual machines and more.

- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Black-Hat-Python-Programming-Pentesters/dp/1593275900)
- ISBN-10: 1593275900

#### Programming Python

So you've covered the basics of Python?  You're now ready to discover the in-depth tutorials which cover the advanced programming aspects of Python. These include system administration, GUIs and the web.  Understand how Python is used in databases, networking, front-end scripting layers and more.

- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Programming-Python-Powerful-Object-Oriented/dp/0596158106)
- [O'Reilly](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596158118.do)
- ISBN-10: 0596158106
- ISBN-13: 978-0596158101

#### Data Science from Scratch: First Principles with Python

You'll learn many of the first princliples for data science tools and how algorithms work by implementing these from scratch.  If you have an aptitude for maths and some coding skills, you'll have a crash course in Python that includes the basics of algebra, statistics, and probability.  You'll learn how to implement models such as k-nearest Neighbors, Naive Bayes, linear and logistic regression, decision trees, neural networks and clustering. Discover recommender systems, natural lanuage processing, network analysis, MapReduce and databases.

- [O'Reilly](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920033400.do)
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Science-Scratch-Principles-Python/dp/149190142X)
- ISBN-10: 149190142X
- ISBN-13: 978-1491901427

*Automate The Boring Stuff With Python*
- Great book for beginners. Has interesting projects to practice Python.
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1593275994/)
- ISBN-10: 1593275994
- ISBN-13: 978-1593275990

*Python crash course 2e* (note that 3e is going to be published on April 2019)
- Paid book which gives concrete introduction to both programming and Python by the creation of projects.
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.fr/Python-Crash-Course-Hands-Project-Based/dp/1593276036/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1539459730&sr=8-1&keywords=python+crash+course)
- ISBN-10: 1593276036
- ISBN-13: 978-1593276034

#### A Smarter Way to Learn Python: Learn it faster. Remember it longer

An "small chunk at a time" approach to learning Python. Has free website for practicing. 

- [Amazon Kindle Version](http://a.co/d/gR5cqvW) 

#### Other Resources

- [Functional Programming in Python by David Mertz [OREILLY] [FREE]](https://www.oreilly.com/programming/free/files/functional-programming-python.pdf)
- [Python in Education by Nicholas H. Tollervey[OREILLY] [FREE]](https://www.oreilly.com/programming/free/files/python-in-education.pdf)
- [How to think like a Computer Scientist by Allen Downey[V 2.0.17] [FREE]](http://greenteapress.com/thinkpython/thinkpython.pdf)
- [A Byte of Python[FREE]](https://python.swaroopch.com)

Please feel free to add more that you have found useful!
