guide/english/agile/index.md, before:

---
title: Agile
---
## Agile

Agile software development is a collection of methodologies used to manage teams of developers. It advocates adaptive planning, evolutionary development, early delivery, and continuous improvement, and it encourages rapid and flexible response to change. People and communication are considered more important than tools and processes.

Agile emphasizes asking end users what they want, and frequently showing them demos of the product as it is developed. This stands in contrast to the "Waterfall" approach, specification-driven development, and what Agile practitioners call "Big Up-Front Design." In these approaches, the features are planned out and budgeted before development starts. 

With Agile, the emphasis is on "agility" - being able to quickly respond to feedback from users and other changing circumstances.

![A comic from Commitstrip.com showing a product manager explaining to a developer that they are switching to agile, but then asking the developer to plan everything up front](https://www.commitstrip.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/Strip-Budegt-fixe-pour-projet-flexible-english650-final.jpg)

The agile software development places its emphasis on four core values.
1. Preference on team and individual interactions over tools and processes.
2. A working software over exhaustive documentation.
3. Collaboration with customer is given more importance than contract negotiations.
4. Response to changes over following a plan.

There are many different flavors of agile, including Scrum and Extreme Programming.

![Various methods present in Agile testing or Agile Testing Methodologies](https://www.guru99.com/images/11-2014/agile_Processesv1_2.png)

### More information

[Agile Alliance's Homepage](https://www.agilealliance.org/)

Commit message:

Update Agile Manifesto and Priciples

guide/english/agile/index.md, after:

---
title: Agile
---
## Agile

Agile software development is a collection of methodologies used to manage teams of developers. It advocates adaptive planning, evolutionary development, early delivery, and continuous improvement, and it encourages rapid and flexible response to change. People and communication are considered more important than tools and processes.

Agile emphasizes asking end users what they want, and frequently showing them demos of the product as it is developed. This stands in contrast to the "Waterfall" approach, specification-driven development, and what Agile practitioners call "Big Up-Front Design." In these approaches, the features are planned out and budgeted before development starts. 

With Agile, the emphasis is on "agility" - being able to quickly respond to feedback from users and other changing circumstances.

![A comic from Commitstrip.com showing a product manager explaining to a developer that they are switching to agile, but then asking the developer to plan everything up front](https://www.commitstrip.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/Strip-Budegt-fixe-pour-projet-flexible-english650-final.jpg)

### Manifesto for Agile Software Development

The agile software development places its emphasis on four core values.

    1. Preference on team and individual interactions over tools and processes.
    2. A working software over exhaustive documentation.
    3. Collaboration with customer is given more importance than contract negotiations.
    4. Response to changes over following a plan.
    
    That is, while there is value in the items on the right, we value the items on the left more.

From these Manifesto, 12 principles are created:

    1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
    2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage.
    3. Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.
    4. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.
    5. Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.
    6. The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation.
    7. Working software is the primary measure of progress.
    8. Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.
    9. Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.
    10. Simplicity--the art of maximizing the amount of work not done--is essential.
    11. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.
    12. At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.



-----
There are many different flavors of agile, including Scrum and Extreme Programming.

![Various methods present in Agile testing or Agile Testing Methodologies](https://www.guru99.com/images/11-2014/agile_Processesv1_2.png)

### More information

[Agile Alliance's Homepage](https://www.agilealliance.org/)
[Agile Manifesto's hompage](http://agilemanifesto.org/)
