---
id: 682f4dff0387fdf5d0cb5ba1
title: Task 46
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-46
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

Sophie writes the summary Brian requested:

`Security Breach Summary`

`Last week, a phishing attack targeted several team members. I spoke with Jake, our cybersecurity specialist, about what happened.`

`The team responded quickly after the breach was detected, isolating the affected systems in minutes, and limiting the damage.`

`Jake mentioned, however, that there was some confusion about team roles during the incident. He recommended clearer roles in our incident response plan.`

`Ideas to prevent future attacks:`

- `Updating security training to cover more on phishing detection`

- `Doing security audits more often`

- `Keeping software updated, since the attack used an outdated system component`

What kind of confusion did Jake mention when talking to Sophie?

## --answers--

Confusion about the type of phishing attack.

### --feedback--

Jake didn't talk about the type of attack being unclear.

---

Confusion about how to update the software.

### --feedback--

Jake does not mention a confusion while updating.

---

Confusion about how to report the breach.

### --feedback--

There was no mention of problems with reporting the breach.

---

Confusion about team roles during the incident.

## --video-solution--

4

# --explanation--

There is a moment in the report where Sophie says that Jake mentioned a `confusion`. Search for that part and you'll be able to correctly answer this question.
