---
id: 66125530a1a9e92e0e08d594
title: Task 19
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-19
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Maria: Excellent. Learning more about our customers is essential. I appreciate your dedication. Can you tell me about your long-term goals?
-->

# --description--

In this task, you'll learn the differences between `short-term`, `mid-term`, and `long-term` goals. 

`Short-term` goals are objectives you plan to achieve soon, usually within a few days to a year. For example, `Finishing a report by the end of the week` is a `short-term` goal.

`Mid-term` goals are targets set for a slightly longer period, often between a year and five years. An example might be, `Getting a professional certification in the next two years`.

`Long-term` goals are plans that are expected to be achieved over a more extended period, typically five years or more. For instance, `Becoming a team leader in ten years` is a `long-term` goal.

Understanding these time frames helps in setting realistic and achievable objectives in both personal and professional contexts.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`_. Learning more about our customers is essential. I _ your _. Can you tell me about your _ goals?`

## --blanks--

`Excellent`

### --feedback--

It is used by Maria to positively acknowledge the information shared. This word is capitalized.

---

`appreciate`

### --feedback--

It indicates that Maria values and is thankful for the effort shown.

---

`dedication`

### --feedback--

It refers to the commitment and hard work shown.

---

`long-term`

### --feedback--

In this context, it refers to goals that are planned to be achieved over an extended period.
