guide/english/html/attributes/links/index.md, before:

---
title: Links
---
## Links

This is a stub. <a href='https://github.com/freecodecamp/guides/tree/master/src/pages/html/attributes/links/index.md' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Help our community expand it</a>.

<a href='https://github.com/freecodecamp/guides/blob/master/README.md' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>This quick style guide will help ensure your pull request gets accepted</a>.

<!-- The article goes here, in GitHub-flavored Markdown. Feel free to add YouTube videos, images, and CodePen/JSBin embeds  -->
Links are used everywhere on the web, with the purpose if directing users to various content items. They're usually indicated by your cursor turning into a hand icon. Links can be text, images or other elements contained within your HTML or webpage. 

You use an ```code <a>``` tag or anchor element to define your link, which also also needs a destination address that you'll access with the ```code href``` attribute. Here's a snippet that makes the phrase 'the freeCodeCamp Guide' a link:

```html
<a href="https://guide.freecodecamp.org">the freeCodeCamp Guide</a>
```

If you'd like your link to open in a new tab, you'll use the ```code target``` attribute along with the ```code "_blank"``` value inside your opening ```code <a>``` tag. That looks like this:

```html
<a href="https://guide.freecodecamp.org" target="_blank">the freeCodeCamp Guide</a>
```

When you need to guide users to a specific part of your webpage, let's assume the very bottom, you first need to assign the hash ```code #``` symbol to the ```code href``` attribute, like this

```html
<a href="#footer>More about us<a/>
```

you'll then need to use an ```code id``` attribute in the element you want to direct your user to - in this case the ```code <footer>``` at the bottom of the webpage. 

```html
<footer id="footer">Powered by freeCodeCamp</footer>
```

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->
<a href="https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_links.asp" target="_blank">w3sschools - HTML Links</a>

Commit message:

Add other values of the target attribute
"_self" "_parent" "_top" _"targetframe"

guide/english/html/attributes/links/index.md, after:

---
title: Links
---
## Links

This is a stub. <a href='https://github.com/freecodecamp/guides/tree/master/src/pages/html/attributes/links/index.md' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Help our community expand it</a>.

<a href='https://github.com/freecodecamp/guides/blob/master/README.md' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>This quick style guide will help ensure your pull request gets accepted</a>.

<!-- The article goes here, in GitHub-flavored Markdown. Feel free to add YouTube videos, images, and CodePen/JSBin embeds  -->
Links are used everywhere on the web, with the purpose if directing users to various content items. They're usually indicated by your cursor turning into a hand icon. Links can be text, images or other elements contained within your HTML or webpage. 

You use an ```code <a>``` tag or anchor element to define your link, which also also needs a destination address that you'll access with the ```code href``` attribute. Here's a snippet that makes the phrase 'the freeCodeCamp Guide' a link:

```html
<a href="https://guide.freecodecamp.org">the freeCodeCamp Guide</a>
```

The target attribute can be used to tell the browser where to open the link.The target attribute can be used to tell the browser where to open the link.  If you'd like your link to open in a new tab, you'll use the ```code target``` attribute along with the ```code "_blank"``` value inside your opening ```code <a>``` tag. That looks like this:

```html
<a href="https://guide.freecodecamp.org" target="_blank">the freeCodeCamp Guide</a>
```

Other values of the target attribute include ```code "_self"``` to open the linked document in the same frame, ```code "_parent"``` to open it in the parent frame, ```code "_top"``` Opens the linked document in the full body of the window and ```code "_targetframe"``` Opens the linked document in a named targetframe.

When you need to guide users to a specific part of your webpage, let's assume the very bottom, you first need to assign the hash ```code #``` symbol to the ```code href``` attribute, like this

```html
<a href="#footer>More about us<a/>
```

you'll then need to use an ```code id``` attribute in the element you want to direct your user to - in this case the ```code <footer>``` at the bottom of the webpage. 

```html
<footer id="footer">Powered by freeCodeCamp</footer>
```

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->
<a href="https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_links.asp" target="_blank">w3sschools - HTML Links</a>
