---
id: 6910a23b05a7eb4386e6e730
title: Grammar Highlights
challengeType: 24
dashedName: grammar-highlights
lang: es
---

<!-- GRAMMAR HIGHLIGHTS -->

# --description--

Congratulations! You're almost done with this module.

The article below will help you review some key grammar points covered in the tasks, so you can feel confident before taking the Module Quiz.

## Grammar Highlights

### Talking about Origin

To say where you are from, you should use: **`Soy` + `de` + [country]**. For example:

- `Soy de El Salvador.`

- `Soy de Guatemala.`

To know where someone is from, ask `¿De dónde eres?`.

<br>

### Talking About Nationality

To say your nationality, you should use: **`Soy` + [nationality]**.

- `Soy salvadoreña.`

- `Soy guatemalteco.`

These are some of the nationalities you've learned so far:

| Country | Masculine Form | Feminine Form |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **`El Salvador`** | `salvadoreño` | `salvadoreña` |
| **`Guatemala`** | `guatemalteco` | `guatemalteca` |
| **`Colombia`** | `colombiano` | `colombiana` |
| **`Argentina`** | `argentino` | `argentina` |
| **`Uruguay`** | `uruguayo` | `uruguaya` |
| **`Puerto Rico`** | `puertorriqueño` | `puertorriqueña` |
| **`Chile`** | `chileno` | `chilena` |
| **`Perú`** | `peruano` | `peruana` |

In Spanish, nationalities typically change with gender. If a nationality ends with `-o`, this last letter is usually replaced by an `-a` to create the feminine form.

However, nationalities that end with a consonant often add an `-a` to create the feminine form. For example, the masculine form of someone from `España` ("Spain") is `español`, while the feminine form is `española`.

Nationalities that end in `-e` or `-í` are usually the same for both genders. For example, the masculine form of someone from `Estados Unidos` ("United States") is `estadounidense`, while the feminine form is also `estadounidense`.

<br>

### Talking About Profession

To say your profession, you should use: **`Soy` + [profession]**. For example:

- `Soy representante de recursos humanos.`

- `Soy analista junior.`

Use this question to ask someone about their profession: `¿A qué te dedicas?`.

<br>

### Talking About Age

To say your age in Spanish, you should use: **`Tengo` + [number] + `años`**. For example:

- `Tengo veintiún años.`

- `Tengo treinta y cinco años.`

You can use this question to ask someone's age: `¿Cuántos años tienes?`.

<br>

### Being Politely During Introductions

There are three important courtesy expressions in Spanish.

**`Mucho gusto`** means "Nice to meet you". It's a polite way of saying that you are glad to meet someone. This phrase is gender-neutral.

**`Encantada`** also means "Nice to meet you", but it's a more expressive way of saying that you are delighted to meet someone. It must agree with the gender of the speaker. Its feminine form is `Encantada`, while its masculine form is `Encantado`.

**`Igualmente`** means "Likewise". It's used to politely return what the other person expressed, without repeating it.

# --assignment--

I confirm I read the grammar highlights.
