---
id: 6910a2da60b9e944f13240a0
title: Glossary
challengeType: 24
dashedName: glossary
lang: es
---

<!-- GLOSSARY -->

# --description--

## Glossary

This Glossary is a quick reference for the most important words and phrases from the content you've worked with in this module. The words are organized by category and in alphabetical order.

### Greetings and Introductions

- `Buenas tardes` - Good afternoon

- `Conocerte` - To meet you

- `Encantada` / `Encantado` - Delighted

- `Hola` - Hello

- `Igualmente` - Likewise

- `Me llaman` - They call me

- `Mi nombre es` - My name is

- `Mucho gusto` - Nice to meet you

<br>

### Questions

- `¿A qué te dedicas?` - What is your profession?

- `¿Cómo te llamas?` - What is your name?

- `¿Cuántos años tienes?` - How old are you?

- `¿De dónde eres?` - Where are you from?

- `¿Y tú?` - And you?

- `¿Y vos?` - And you? (Regional variation)

<br>

### People and Identity

- `Eres` - You are

- `Soy` - I am

<br>

### Professions and Work

- `Analista` - Analyst

- `Datos` - Data

- `Ingeniera` / `Ingeniero` - Engineer

- `Junior` - Junior

- `Recursos humanos` - Human resources

- `Representante` - Representative

- `Software` - Software

<br>

### Location and Origin

- `Colombia` - Colombia

- `Colombiana` / `Colombiano` - Colombian

- `De` - From

- `El Salvador` - El Salvador

- `Guatemala` - Guatemala

- `Guatemalteca` / `Guatemalteco` - Guatemalan

- `Puerto Rico` - Puerto Rico

- `Puertorriqueña` / `Puertorriqueño` - Puerto Rican

- `Salvadoreña` / `Salvadoreño` - Salvadoran

<br>

### Numbers

- `Treinta` - Thirty

- `Treinta y cinco` - Thirty-five

- `Treinta y seis` - Thirty-six

- `Veintiuno` - Twenty-one

- `Veinticinco` - Twenty-five

# --assignment--

I confirm I read the glossary.
