---
id: 67baf819713e00097de1c212
title: Task 80
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-80
---

<!-- (Audio) Anna: We've found that virtual team-building activities can be just as effective. -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

How does Anna's team remain effective?

## --answers--

By avoiding teamwork and working individually.

### --feedback--

Anna doesn't say that her team avoids teamwork.

---

By meeting in person every week.

### --feedback--

Anna mentions activities that don't require in-person meetings.

---

By using virtual team-building activities.

---

By eliminating all forms of team bonding.

### --feedback--

Anna suggests that team-building is important, not that they eliminate it.

## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

`Team-building activities` describe exercises designed to strengthen teamwork and cooperation. For example:

- `Outdoor team-building activities like hiking or obstacle courses strengthen teamwork.` - Physical challenges encourage cooperation and bonding.

- `Cooking classes are unique team-building activities that encourage collaboration and creativity.` - Preparing food together is a fun way to strengthen team spirit.

`Virtual team-building activities` are designed to help remote teams. For example:

- `Virtual team-building activities like icebreaker questions help new employees feel welcome.` - Asking fun questions makes it easier for new hires to connect with the team.

- `Online escape rooms are great virtual team-building activities for problem-solving.` - Teams work together to solve puzzles in a virtual environment.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "interview-room3.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Anna",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 15,
          "z": 1.2
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_11-2.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 49.6,
      "finishTimestamp": 52.94
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Anna",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Anna",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 4.34,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "We've found that virtual team building activities can be just as effective.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Anna",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 4.84
    }
  ]
}
```
