guide/english/java/basic-operations/bitwise-operators/index.md, before:

---
title: bitwise operator example
---
# Bitwise operators
## Truth table
![truth table](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-0KPDI41veH0/V-OtObm_UWI/AAAAAAAAAso/CkTS0zUMGKIjlE3gUD0fMhmp-B0zcfBmACLcB/s1600/Bitwise-truthtable-Javaform.jpg "truth table")

The bitwise operators are similar to the logical operators, except that they work on a smaller scale -- binary representations of data. Any data can be converted to its binary equivalent. Though binary operators work at binary level but they are operated between normal decimal values only.

## Types of Bitwise Operators

### Bitwise OR

Bitwise OR is a binary operator (operates on two operands). It's denoted by |.
The | operator compares corresponding bits of two operands. If either of the bits is 1, it gives 1. If not, it gives 0.

### Bitwise AND

Bitwise AND is a binary operator (operates on two operands). It's denoted by &.
The & operator compares corresponding bits of two operands. If both bits are 1, it gives 1. If either of the bits is not 1, it gives 0.

### Bitwise Complement

Bitwise complement is an unary operator (works on only one operand). It is denoted by ~.
The ~ operator inverts the bit pattern. It makes every 0 to 1, and every 1 to 0.

### Bitwise XOR

Bitwise XOR is a binary operator (operates on two operands). It's denoted by ^.
The ^ operator compares corresponding bits of two operands. If corresponding bits are different, it gives 1. If corresponding bits are same, it gives 0.

### Left Shift

The left shift operator << shifts a bit pattern to the left by certain number of specified bits, and zero bits are shifted into the low-order positions.

### Right Shift

The right shift operator >> shifts a bit pattern to the right by certain number of specified bits.If the number is a 2's complement signed number, the sign bit is shifted into the high-order positions.

### Unsigned Right Shift

The unsigned right shift operator >>> shifts zero into the leftmost position.

### Example bitwise operators :
```java
    int a = 60;	      /* 60 = 0011 1100 represents 60 in binary*/
    int b = 13;	      /* 13 = 0000 1101 */
    int c = 0;
    
    c = a & b;        /* 12 = 0000 1100 */
    c = a | b;        /* 61 = 0011 1101 */
    c = a ^ b;        /* 49 = 0011 0001 */
    c = ~a;           /*-61 = 1100 0011  :Invert all bits */
    
    // shift operators : zeros are shifted in to replace the discarded bits
    c = a << 2;       /* 240 = 1111 0000 : Shift left 2 bits*/
    c = a >> 2;       /* 15 = 1111 */
    c = a >>> 2;      /* 15 = 0000 1111 : Zero fill right shift*/
      
```
**FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:** <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/op3.html">Click Here</a>

Commit message:

Negating a number using bitwise functions
I adding a challenge on how to negate a number using bitwise functions.

guide/english/java/basic-operations/bitwise-operators/index.md, after:

---
title: bitwise operator example
---
# Bitwise operators
## Truth table
![truth table](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-0KPDI41veH0/V-OtObm_UWI/AAAAAAAAAso/CkTS0zUMGKIjlE3gUD0fMhmp-B0zcfBmACLcB/s1600/Bitwise-truthtable-Javaform.jpg "truth table")

The bitwise operators are similar to the logical operators, except that they work on a smaller scale -- binary representations of data. Any data can be converted to its binary equivalent. Though binary operators work at binary level but they are operated between normal decimal values only.

## Types of Bitwise Operators

### Bitwise OR

Bitwise OR is a binary operator (operates on two operands). It's denoted by |.
The | operator compares corresponding bits of two operands. If either of the bits is 1, it gives 1. If not, it gives 0.

### Bitwise AND

Bitwise AND is a binary operator (operates on two operands). It's denoted by &.
The & operator compares corresponding bits of two operands. If both bits are 1, it gives 1. If either of the bits is not 1, it gives 0.

### Bitwise Complement

Bitwise complement is an unary operator (works on only one operand). It is denoted by ~.
The ~ operator inverts the bit pattern. It makes every 0 to 1, and every 1 to 0.

### Bitwise XOR

Bitwise XOR is a binary operator (operates on two operands). It's denoted by ^.
The ^ operator compares corresponding bits of two operands. If corresponding bits are different, it gives 1. If corresponding bits are same, it gives 0.

### Left Shift

The left shift operator << shifts a bit pattern to the left by certain number of specified bits, and zero bits are shifted into the low-order positions.

### Right Shift

The right shift operator >> shifts a bit pattern to the right by certain number of specified bits.If the number is a 2's complement signed number, the sign bit is shifted into the high-order positions.

### Unsigned Right Shift

The unsigned right shift operator >>> shifts zero into the leftmost position.

### Example bitwise operators :
```java
    int a = 60;	      /* 60 = 0011 1100 represents 60 in binary*/
    int b = 13;	      /* 13 = 0000 1101 */
    int c = 0;
    
    c = a & b;        /* 12 = 0000 1100 */
    c = a | b;        /* 61 = 0011 1101 */
    c = a ^ b;        /* 49 = 0011 0001 */
    c = ~a;           /*-61 = 1100 0011  :Invert all bits */
    
    // shift operators : zeros are shifted in to replace the discarded bits
    c = a << 2;       /* 240 = 1111 0000 : Shift left 2 bits*/
    c = a >> 2;       /* 15 = 1111 */
    c = a >>> 2;      /* 15 = 0000 1111 : Zero fill right shift*/
      
```

CHALLENGE:

How do I get the negative of a number use only bitwise operations?

Let do an example:

4: 0100

Complement:
~0100 = 1011 = 11

Add 1:
  1011
 +   1
 ______
   1100
   
1100 = -4!

You can compute the negative of a number by using the complement and addition:

~n + 1


**FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:** <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/op3.html">Click Here</a>
