---
id: 6617994636fa13f16060b12b
title: Task 17
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-17
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Sarah: I still think we should dedicate more time to the web app, but I see where you’re coming from, Brian. I think we can try giving equal priority for a while.
-->

# --description--

This task helps you understand and use `still`, `dedicate`, and `priority` in a professional setting.

`Still` is used to indicate that something is continuing or hasn't changed. For example, `I still need to finish that report` means the task is ongoing.

To `dedicate` means to devote time or resources to a particular task or purpose. For instance, `We need to dedicate more staff to customer service` suggests focusing more team members on that area.

`Priority` refers to the importance given to something that needs to be done or dealt with first. Saying `Making our website user-friendly is a priority` means that it's an important focus.

Understanding these terms is key for discussing work plans and responsibilities.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`I _ think we should _ more time to the web app, but I see where you’re coming from, Brian. I think we can try giving equal _ for a while.`

## --blanks--

`still`

### --feedback--

It indicates that Sarah continues to believe more focus is needed on the web app despite the ongoing discussion.

---

`dedicate`

### --feedback--

In this context, it means allocating or devoting more effort or resources to the web app.

---

`priority`

### --feedback--

It means the level of importance or focus, with Sarah suggesting to balance it between the web and mobile apps.
