---
id: 66175386c145ea8d96b0adf9
title: Task 4
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-4
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Sophie: I respectfully disagree, Bob. I believe the color scheme needs some changes.
-->

# --description--

Understanding how to communicate disagreements `respectfully` is key in maintaining a positive and constructive work environment.

`Respectfully` is an adverb that means doing something with respect or showing respect towards someone or something.

It comes from the verb `respect`, which means to admire or show consideration for someone or something.

When you add `-ful` to `respect`, you get the adjective `respectful`, which describes someone who shows `respect`.

Adding `-ly` to `respectful` turns it into `respectfully`, which describes how an action is done with `respect`.

Examples:

`I respect your opinion.` This means you admire or value someone's opinion.

`She was respectful during the meeting.` This describes her behavior in the meeting as showing `respect` towards others.

`He disagreed, but he did so respectfully.` This means he showed disagreement in a way that was polite and showed `respect` towards others' opinions.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`I _ disagree, Bob. I _ the color scheme needs some changes.`

## --blanks--

`respectfully`

### --feedback--

This adverb is used here to politely express a disagreement, showing consideration for the other person's opinion.

---

`believe`

### --feedback--

It indicates Sophie's opinion that the color scheme requires changes.
