---
id: 691df21215990703b62b16f4
title: Task 4
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-4
lang: es
---
<!-- (No Audio) -->

# --description--

Mateo needs to practice how to introduce himself before an interview. 

He decided to write down some sentences on paper to gain confidence. Help him complete the sentences below by choosing the correct words.

# --instructions--

Find the correct words from the list below to help Mateo.

**IMPORTANT**: Some words won't be used, others simply don't make sense in context, and you can only use each word **once**.

`Soy`, `Me llamo`, `puertorriqueño`, `mañana`, `noches`, `hola`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Hola, buenas BLANK.`

`BLANK Mateo.`  

`BLANK ingeniero de software.`  

`Soy BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`noches`

### --feedback--

This word means "nights" and is used in evening greetings.

---

`Me llamo`

### --feedback--

These two words together are used when you are going to introduce your name.

---

`Soy`

### --feedback--

Use this form of the verb `ser` ("to be") to say your profession or where you are from.

---

`puertorriqueño`

### --feedback--

This word refers to someone from Puerto Rico.

# --explanation--

The sentence uses `buenas noches` for evening greetings.

`Me llamo` is a common way to say your name.

`Soy` is a verb conjugation fo the verb `ser` ("to be") used before saying your job or profession.

`Puertorriqueño` is the masculine form of the nationality from Puerto Rico.

Here's an example, putting it all together:

`Hola, buenas noches. Me llamo Mateo. Soy ingeniero de software. Soy puertorriqueño.`
