---
id: 685813a20ea5551efcaea78c
title: Task 156
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-156
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After getting help from Sarah, James decided to write a memo so others could find equipment more easily.

`Hello team,`

`To make it easier for everyone setting up or upgrading their workstations, here's an updated overview of where you can find commonly used items:`

`- Monitors`

`Monitors have been moved. You'll find them along the corridor, just past the break area. Look to your left, near the coffee machine.`

`- Keyboards`

`After last week's shipment, all keyboards are now kept in a labeled storage room. It's located near the main entrance — take a right just before reaching it. It's the second door on your left, across from the mail room.`

`- Ethernet Cables & Accessories`

`These are stored in a smaller closet a bit out of the way. Head towards the server room, but turn right just before the door. The closet is on your right. It's a bit of a trek, but worth it if you need cables or extra accessories.`

`Please keep these areas organized for others. If you move any equipment, let IT know!`

`Best,`

`James`

What makes finding the Ethernet cables a bit challenging?

## --answers--

They are in a smaller closet that is out of the way.

---

They are stored next to the main entrance with the keyboards.

### --feedback--

That location is not for Ethernet cables.

---

They were not delivered with the last shipment.

### --feedback--

James only says that keyboards were part of a shipment, not mentioning cables.

---

They are kept with the monitors and often moved.

### --feedback--

The monitors are kept separately and there's no mention of them being moved.

## --video-solution--

1

# --explanation--

James says the cables are stored in a smaller closet that is `out of the way`.

Focus on the section about `Ethernet Cables & Accessories`.
