---
id: 6557dea8c258c1c2a767deb7
title: Task 30
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-30
---

<!-- (Audio) James: I can't imagine being so productive even before coming to work! -->

# --description--

The word `even` is used to add emphasis to a statement, often highlighting something surprising, unexpected, or extreme. 

When combined with `before` in the phrase `even before`, it emphasizes that an action or event occurs earlier than usual or expected, adding a sense of surprise or admiration. For example:

`Even before the sun rises, she starts her workout.` (emphasizes that her workout begins unusually early)

`He finished the project even before the deadline.` (implies that finishing before the deadline is surprisingly early)

In conversation, using `even` can express that something is more than what might be considered normal or usual. It makes the statement stronger.

# --questions--

## --text--

What is James implying by using `even before` in his statement?

## --answers--

He expects everyone to be productive before coming to work

### --feedback--

`Even before` in this context is not an expectation.

---

Sarah is only productive at work, not before

### --feedback--

James's use of `even before` suggests that he's surprised Sarah is productive before work, not that she's only productive at work.

---

Being productive before work is a regular occurrence for everyone

### --feedback--

The use of `even before` indicates that James finds being productive before work unusually early, not a regular occurrence.

---

He is surprised that Sarah is productive before arriving at work

## --video-solution--

4

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company2-breakroom.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "James",
        "position": {"x":50,"y":15,"z":1.2},
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "2.2-1.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 64.20,
      "finishTimestamp": 67.90
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "James",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "James",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 4.70,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "I can't imagine being so productive even before coming to work.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "James",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 5.20
    }
  ]
}
```
