---
id: 655a9d161bf4cf51369ff1e0
title: Task 78
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-78
---
<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`relax by`, `come up`, `consistent`, `complicated`, `setting the table`, and `start by`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Jake: Hey Sarah. Sophie said you have some good tips for a great morning. I want to have a good evening routine, too, but it's BLANK with my two kids running around. Do you have any ideas that could help?`

`Sarah: I totally understand, Jake. It can be tough. Let's see if we can BLANK with some ideas that include the kids.`

`Jake: Great! I usually get home around 6. After that, it's a bit chaotic.`

`Sarah: You can BLANK involving your kids in light activities. Go for a family walk or play a short outdoor game together when you get home. It's a great way to have fun and stay active.`

`Jake: Nice! What about dinner? It's always a rush.`

`Sarah: Plan simple and quick meals for weekdays. Involve the kids in BLANK as well.`

`Jake: Good idea! After dinner, I usually help them with their homework.`

`Sarah: That's important. While they do homework, use the time to stretch or relax a bit. This also helps with your self-care.`

`Jake: Amazing. Hmm… How about bedtime?`

`Sarah: Keep a BLANK bedtime routine for your kids. Read them a bedtime story or talk to them about nice, calm things at bedtime. This helps them relax and gives you some quiet time after they go to sleep.`

`Jake: That makes sense! What do you do before going to sleep, Sarah?`

`Sarah: I like to BLANK reading a book or listening to music. Sometimes, I meditate. If your kids are asleep, you can do these things too.`

`Jake: Great suggestions, Sarah! Thanks for helping me with my evening routine.`

`Sarah: Anytime, Jake.`

## --blanks--

`complicated`

### --feedback--

This adjective describes something difficult or challenging.

---

`come up`

### --feedback--

These two words mean to think of or create an idea. The first word is a verb, and the second is a preposition.

---

`start by`

### --feedback--

These two words introduce the first step of a process. The first word is a verb, and the second is a preposition.

---

`setting the table`

### --feedback--

These three words refer to arranging plates, utensils, and other items before a meal. The first word is a verb in the present participle form, the second is an article, and the third is a noun.

---

`consistent`

### --feedback--

This adjective describes something that happens in the same way regularly.

---

`relax by`

### --feedback--

These two words introduce a way to unwind. The first word is a verb, and the second is a preposition.
