---
id: 657a45a85a8f6cfeef7803db
title: Task 100
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-100
---
<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.  

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:  

`stay at`, `work at`, `take a break`, `some`, `out of the`, and `don't mind`.  

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--  

`Sophie: Hey Brian. TGIF, right? Do you have any plans for the weekend?`  

`Brian: Nothing BLANK ordinary, Sophie. On Saturday, I wake up early, at 7:00. I run in the park near my place in the morning. In the afternoon, I visit my parents and I have lunch with them.`  

`Sophie: Nice! On Saturday, I usually sleep until 9:30. In the morning, I do BLANK house cleaning. In the afternoon, I watch a movie at home, or I go out with friends to do some window-shopping at the mall.`  

`Brian: And on Sunday?`  

`Sophie: On Sunday, I have a lazy morning. I just BLANK home and play some video games on my console. In the evening, I make dinner and go to sleep early, because, on Monday, it’s back to work again.`  

`Brian: I have a relaxing Sunday, too. In the morning and in the evening, I work on a personal coding project. In the afternoon, I BLANK and go for a quick walk in the park.`  

`Sophie: That’s a good mix of indoor and outdoor activities! I don't BLANK the computer on weekends like you, though. I save that for the weekdays, I suppose.`  

`Brian: I know, right? But it is a personal project and I like it a lot, so I BLANK spending some of my time on it.`  

## --blanks--  

`out of the`  

### --feedback--  

This indicates something unusual. It begins with a preposition followed by another and then a definite article.  

---

`some`  

### --feedback--  

This is a determiner used to refer to an unspecified amount.

---

`stay at`  

### --feedback--  

This describes remaining in a place. It begins with a verb followed by a preposition.  

---

`take a break`  

### --feedback--  

This means "to pause an activity for rest". It begins with a verb followed by an indefinite article and then a noun.  

---

`work at`  

### --feedback--  

This describes putting effort into an activity. It begins with a verb followed by a preposition.  

---

`don't mind`  

### --feedback--  

This indicates that something is not a problem. It begins with an auxiliary verb in the negative followed by the main verb.
