---
id: 67ca0719cf479630dbb12495
title: Task 92
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-92
---
<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:  

`yourself`, `keep up`, `is it true`, `look for`, `in the evening`, `take`, and `hang out`.  

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Brian: Hey Maria, BLANK that you're never home in the evenings? How do you do that?`  

`Maria: Hi Brian. Well, yeah! I like doing fun things BLANK, so I go out a lot. On Mondays, I have dance classes from 6 to 7:30 PM. I love dancing.`  

`Brian: Oh, great! What about Tuesdays?`  

`Maria: On Tuesdays, I learn Japanese. I BLANK online lessons at 7 PM. I think it's the only day I am home so early. Then, on Wednesdays, I go to a local theater group. Practice goes until 9 PM. We perform small plays. It's really fun.`  

`Brian: That's exciting! How about Thursdays?`  

`Maria: Thursdays are for watching shows. I BLANK live concerts or theater plays. It's my favorite time to relax.`  

`Brian: Wow! Do you rest at home on Fridays at least?`  

`Maria: Not at all. I leave the weekends for that. On Fridays, I like to BLANK with friends. We normally meet at a bar, chat and have something to eat and drink. But I'm not really a night owl, so I like to be back home by 9:30 PM tops.`  

`Brian: So many activities! I don't think I could BLANK that pace. But it's nice to know you enjoy it to the fullest, Maria. I think I'll try to go out more often in the evening as well.`  

`Maria: Sure, Brian! Just don't forget to give BLANK time to rest. Find what your interests are and have some fun!`  

## --blanks--

`is it true`  

### --feedback--  

This forms a `yes`/`no` question asking for confirmation. It begins with a verb followed by a pronoun and then an adjective.  

---

`in the evening`  

### --feedback--  

This indicates a time of day. It begins with a preposition followed by a definite article and then a noun.  

---

`take`  

### --feedback--  

This means "to sign up for or participate in a class or lesson".  

---

`look for`  

### --feedback--  

This means "to search or seek something". It begins with a verb followed by a preposition.  

---

`hang out`  

### --feedback--  

This describes spending time casually with friends. It begins with a verb followed by a preposition.  

---

`keep up`  

### --feedback--  

This means "to maintain the same pace or level as someone or something else". It begins with a verb followed by a preposition.  

---

`yourself`  

### --feedback--  

This is a reflexive pronoun referring back to the speaker. 
