---
id: 68484a406e0f726ad5d1d330
title: Task 99
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-99
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After meeting with David, Alice shared the budget breakdown with the rest of the team:

`Hi team,`

`Here's a summary of how our project budget is currently divided across different phases:`

- `Development Phase: 45% of the total budget is for development. One-fourth of that goes to back-end development to support our scalability goals.`

- `Front End & Design: 27% is for front end and user interface design. Half of this amount is focused on improving user experience so the app is smooth and easy to use.`

- `Testing: 13% of the budget is for testing, from unit tests to final quality checks. This helps us avoid bugs and ensure a stable launch.`

- `Contingency: 15% of the budget is saved for unexpected costs later in the project.`

`So far, we've spent about 40% of the total budget, mainly on setup and early development. We'll keep monitoring our spending and make changes if needed as we move forward.`

`Best,`

`Alice`

Which phase uses the most of the total budget?

## --answers--

`Development`

---

`Front End and Design`

### --feedback--

This phase gets 27%.

---

`Testing`

### --feedback--

Testing is only 13%.

---

`Contingency`

### --feedback--

Contingency is only 15%.

## --video-solution--

1

# --explanation--

Pay attention to the percentages stated in the breakdown.

According to it, `Development` phase receives 45% of the total budget, making it the largest allocation among all project phases.
