guide/english/javascript/arithmetic-operation/index.md, before:

---
title: Arithmetic Operation
---
JavaScript provides the user with five arithmetic operators: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/` and `%`. The operators are for addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and remainder respectively.

## Addition

**Syntax**

`a + b`

**Usage**

    2 + 3          // returns 5
    true + 2       // interprets true as 1 and returns 3
    false + 5      // interprets false as 0 and returns 5
    true + "bar"   // concatenates the boolean value and returns "truebar"
    5 + "foo"      // concatenates the string and the number and returns "5foo"
    "foo" + "bar"  // concatenates the strings and returns "foobar"

_Hint:_ There is a handy <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Arithmetic_Operators#Increment_(' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>increment</a>) operator that is a great shortcut when you're adding numbers by 1.

## Subtraction

**Syntax**

`a - b`

**Usage**

    2 - 3      // returns -1
    3 - 2      // returns 1
    false - 5  // interprets false as 0 and returns -5
    true - 3   // interprets true as 1 and returns -2
    5 - "foo"  // returns NaN (Not a Number)

_Hint:_ There is a handy <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Arithmetic_Operators#Decrement_(--' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>decrement</a>) operator that is a great shortcut when you're subtracting numbers by 1.

## Multiplication

**Syntax**

`a * b`

**Usage**

    2 * 3                // returns 6
    3 * -2               // returns -6
    false * 5            // interprets false as 0 and returns 0
    true * 3             // interprets true as 1 and returns 3
    5 * "foo"            // returns NaN (Not a Number)
    Infinity * 0         // returns NaN
    Infinity * Infinity  // returns Infinity

## Division

**Syntax**

`a / b`

**Usage**

    3 / 2                // returns 1.5
    3.0 / 2/0            // returns 1.5
    3 / 0                // returns Infinity
    3.0 / 0.0            // returns Infinity
    -3 / 0               // returns -Infinity
    false / 5            // interprets false as 0 and returns 0
    true / 2             // interprets true a 1 and returns 0.5
    5 / "foo"            // returns NaN (Not a Number)
    Infinity / Infinity  // returns NaN

## Remainder

**Syntax**

`a % b`

**Usage**

    3 % 2          // returns 1
    true % 5       // interprets true as 1 and returns 1
    false % 4      // interprets false as 0 and returns 0
    3 % "bar"      // returns NaN

## Increment

**Syntax**

`a++ or ++a`

**Usage**
    
    // Postfix
    x = 3;  // declare a variable 
    y = x++;        // y = 4, x = 3
    
    // Prefix
    var a = 2;
    b = ++a; // a = 3, b = 3

## Decrement

**Syntax**

`a-- or --a`

**Usage**
    
    // Postfix
    x = 3;  // declare a variable 
    y = x--;        // y = 3, x = 3
    
    // Prefix
    var a = 2;
    b = --a; // a = 1, b = 1
_!Important!_ As you can see, you **cannot** perform any sort of operations on `Infinity`.

Source: The amazing <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Arithmetic_Operators' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>MDN</a>.

Commit message:

Add hints about best practices
Add a comment to addition, subtraction, multiplication and division sections about best practices for use of spaces.

guide/english/javascript/arithmetic-operation/index.md, after:

---
title: Arithmetic Operation
---
JavaScript provides the user with five arithmetic operators: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/` and `%`. The operators are for addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and remainder respectively.

## Addition

**Syntax**

`a + b`

**Usage**

    2 + 3          // returns 5
    true + 2       // interprets true as 1 and returns 3
    false + 5      // interprets false as 0 and returns 5
    true + "bar"   // concatenates the boolean value and returns "truebar"
    5 + "foo"      // concatenates the string and the number and returns "5foo"
    "foo" + "bar"  // concatenates the strings and returns "foobar"

_Hint:_ There is a handy <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Arithmetic_Operators#Increment_(' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>increment</a>) operator that is a great shortcut when you're adding numbers by 1.

_Hint:_ The spaces between the values and the operator are optional (the calculation will work fine without them), but it is generally accepted best practice to include them.

## Subtraction

**Syntax**

`a - b`

**Usage**

    2 - 3      // returns -1
    3 - 2      // returns 1
    false - 5  // interprets false as 0 and returns -5
    true - 3   // interprets true as 1 and returns -2
    5 - "foo"  // returns NaN (Not a Number)

_Hint:_ There is a handy <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Arithmetic_Operators#Decrement_(--' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>decrement</a>) operator that is a great shortcut when you're subtracting numbers by 1.

_Hint:_ The spaces between the values and the operator are optional (the calculation will work fine without them), but it is generally accepted best practice to include them.

## Multiplication

**Syntax**

`a * b`

**Usage**

    2 * 3                // returns 6
    3 * -2               // returns -6
    false * 5            // interprets false as 0 and returns 0
    true * 3             // interprets true as 1 and returns 3
    5 * "foo"            // returns NaN (Not a Number)
    Infinity * 0         // returns NaN
    Infinity * Infinity  // returns Infinity

_Hint:_ The spaces between the values and the operator are optional (the calculation will work fine without them), but it is generally accepted best practice to include them.

## Division

**Syntax**

`a / b`

**Usage**

    3 / 2                // returns 1.5
    3.0 / 2/0            // returns 1.5
    3 / 0                // returns Infinity
    3.0 / 0.0            // returns Infinity
    -3 / 0               // returns -Infinity
    false / 5            // interprets false as 0 and returns 0
    true / 2             // interprets true a 1 and returns 0.5
    5 / "foo"            // returns NaN (Not a Number)
    Infinity / Infinity  // returns NaN

_Hint:_ The spaces between the values and the operator are optional (the calculation will work fine without them), but it is generally accepted best practice to include them.

## Remainder

**Syntax**

`a % b`

**Usage**

    3 % 2          // returns 1
    true % 5       // interprets true as 1 and returns 1
    false % 4      // interprets false as 0 and returns 0
    3 % "bar"      // returns NaN

_Hint:_ The spaces between the values and the operator are optional (the calculation will work fine without them), but it is generally accepted best practice to include them.

## Increment

**Syntax**

`a++ or ++a`

**Usage**
    
    // Postfix
    x = 3;  // declare a variable 
    y = x++;        // y = 4, x = 3
    
    // Prefix
    var a = 2;
    b = ++a; // a = 3, b = 3

## Decrement

**Syntax**

`a-- or --a`

**Usage**
    
    // Postfix
    x = 3;  // declare a variable 
    y = x--;        // y = 3, x = 3
    
    // Prefix
    var a = 2;
    b = --a; // a = 1, b = 1
_!Important!_ As you can see, you **cannot** perform any sort of operations on `Infinity`.

Source: The amazing <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Arithmetic_Operators' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>MDN</a>.
