---
id: 662a35f7eaaa932ab0973d0c
title: Task 21
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-21
---

<!-- (Audio) Sophie: I've learned about variables, data types, and even conditional statements in many languages. -->

# --description--

Learn `variables`, `data types` and `conditional statements` in programming.

A `variable` is like a box where you can store information. This information can be numbers, text, or other types of data. You can change what's in the box, which is why it's called a `variable` – because it can vary. For example, in `x = 5`, `x` temporarily holds the value 5.

A `data type` is a classification that specifies the type of data that a `variable` can hold. Common `data types` include integers (whole numbers), floats (numbers with a decimal), strings (text), and booleans (true or false). For example, if `age = 21`, the `data type` is an integer.

A `conditional statement` is a command that tells the computer to do something only if a specific condition is true. It's like making a decision in real life based on a certain situation. Common `conditional statements` are `if-else` statements. For example, `if (temperature > 20) {console.log("It's warm outside!");}` is a `conditional statement` that executes `{console.log("It's warm outside!")` if the temperature is above 20 degrees.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`I've learned about BLANK, BLANK BLANK, and even BLANK BLANK in BLANK languages.`

## --blanks--

`variables`

### --feedback--

It refers to names in code storing values that can change during program execution.

---

`data`

### --feedback--

It refers to the information or values that are used and processed by a computer program.

---

`types`

### --feedback--

They are the various categories or kinds of data that a programming language can recognize and handle.

---

`conditional`

### --feedback--

This adjective describes a type of programming statement that depends on a specific condition being met.

---

`statements`

### --feedback--

They are the individual commands or lines of code that a computer program executes. 

---

`many`

### --feedback--

This word is used to indicate a large number of something, usually with countable nouns.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company2-breakroom.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Sophie",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 0,
          "z": 1.4
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "5.1-1.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 15.04,
      "finishTimestamp": 19.92
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Sophie",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Sophie",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 5.88,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "I've learned about variables, data types, and even conditional statements in many languages.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Sophie",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 6.38
    }
  ]
}
```
