---
id: 6723d027b02e4cc6ee5944da
title: JavaScript Maps and Sets Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-javascript-maps-and-sets
---

# --description--

Review the concepts below to prepare for the upcoming quiz.

## Sets in JavaScript

- A `Set` is a built-in option for managing data collection. 
- Sets ensure that each value in it appears only once, making it useful for eliminating duplicates from an array or handling collections of distinct values.
- You can create a `Set` using the `Set()` constructor:

```js
const set = new Set([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]);
console.log(set); // Set { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 }
```

- Sets can be manipulated using these methods: 
  
  - `add()`: Adds a new element to the `Set`.
  - `delete()`: Removes an element from the `Set`.
  - `has()`: Checks if an element exists in the `Set`.
  - `clear()`: Removes all elements from the `Set`.
  - `keys()` and `values()`: Both returns a `SetIterator` that contains the values of the `Set`. They are the same because `keys()` is an alias for `values()`.
  - `forEach()`: for iterating over the values of the `Set`.

## Weaksets in JavaScript

- `WeakSet` is a collection of objects that allows you to store weakly held objects.

## Sets vs WeakSets

- Unlike Sets, a `WeakSet` does not support primitives like numbers or strings.
- A `WeakSet` only stores objects, and the references to those objects are "weak," meaning that if the object is not being used anywhere else in your code, it is removed automatically to free up memory.

## Maps in JavaScript

- A `Map` is a built-in object that holds key-value pairs just like an object. 
- Maps differ from the standard JavaScript objects with their ability to allow keys of any type, including objects, and functions.
- A `Map` provides better performance over the standard object when it comes to frequent addition and removals of key-value pairs.
- You can create a `Map` using the `Map()` constructor:

```js
const map = new Map([
  ['flower', 'rose'],
  ['fruit', 'apple'],
  ['vegetable', 'carrot']
]);
console.log(map); // Map(3) { 'flower' => 'rose', 'fruit' => 'apple', 'vegetable' => 'carrot' }
```

- Maps can be manipulated using these methods:

  - `set()`: Adds a new key-value pair to the `Map`.
  - `get()`: Retrieves the value of a key from the `Map`.
  - `delete()`: Removes a key-value pair from the `Map`.
  - `has()`: Checks if a key exists in the `Map`.
  - `clear()`: Removes all key-value pairs from the `Map`.

Note that both Maps and Sets have the `size` property that returns the number of unique elements in them.

## WeakMaps in JavaScript

- A `WeakMap` is a collection of key-value pairs just like `Map`, but with weak references to the keys. The keys must be an object and the values can be anything you like.

## Maps vs WeakMaps

- WeakMaps are similar to WeakSets in that they only store objects and the references to those objects are "weak".

# --assignment--

Review the JavaScript Maps, Sets, and JSON topics and concepts.
