---
id: 678e4be2a53566beddaf22c0
title: Task 56
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-56
---

<!-- (audio) Maria: I understand, but IntelliJ IDEA integrates well with various build tools. It also has built-in support for version control, which we rely on a lot. -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and complete the sentence below.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`I understand, but IntelliJ IDEA integrates well with various BLANK. It also has BLANK support for BLANK, which we rely on a lot.`


## --blanks--

`build tools`

### --feedback--

This two-word phrase means programs used to automate tasks like compiling code, running tests, and packaging applications.

---

`built-in`

### --feedback--

This means that the feature is already included in the software, not requiring an additional installation or setup. This is a compound word. Remember to use `-`.

---

`version control`

### --feedback--

This two-word phrase refers to the system used to manage and track changes made to code, allowing developers to collaborate and maintain different versions of the project.

# --explanation--

`Build tools` are software programs that help automate and manage repetitive tasks, such as compiling, testing, and packaging software projects. For example:

`Maven is a popular build tool for Java projects, helping automate the compilation process.` - This means that Maven simplifies the process of building Java applications, automating tasks like compiling code and creating packages.

`Built-in` refers to features that are already part of the software and do not require additional installation or configuration. For example:

`Visual Studio has built-in tools for debugging code.` - This means that debugging tools are already included in Visual Studio, and users don't need to install any extra tools to start debugging.

`Version control` is a system that tracks and manages changes to code, allowing teams to work on the same project without losing any work or causing conflicts. For example:

`Git is a widely-used version control system for tracking code changes and collaborating with teammates.` - This means Git helps developers manage different versions of the code and work together on the same project.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company1-boardroom.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Maria",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 0,
          "z": 1.5
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_9-2.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 28.41,
      "finishTimestamp": 36.5
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 5.29,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "I understand, but IntelliJ IDEA integrates well with various build tools.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "startTime": 5.71,
      "finishTime": 9.09,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "It also has built-in support for version control, which we rely on a lot.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 9.59
    }
  ]
}
```
