guide/english/working-in-tech/code-reviews/index.md, before:

---
title: Code Reviews
---
## Code Reviews
Code Reviews exist in order to improve the quality of the code in a software project and are common practice for many software development teams.
Code reviews involve team members looking into each others' code submissions to check for bugs, incorrect logic or 
potential improvements. A code review can be done amongst developers of the project under review, as well as developers from other teams in the same company.
To those who have not experienced the code review process before, 
it can be intimidating. However, it is an invaluable process to help you 
grow as a developer. Even if a review is just an explanation of the code to another programmer,
the feeling that your code is going to be read/ inspected by another programmer as well makes you write better code in many ways
(smaller methods, comments and no ["magic numbers"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_number_(programming))).

As to what is reviewed and when, well there is no clear answer.
Many teams have rules that every piece of code that checks-in in the version control system has to be reviewed by another programmer,
while other teams have whole days when they dedicate to code reviews across the team.

It is important to be humble throughout the code review process. Accept your mistakes, 
and be professional when pointing out improvements or errors in the code of your fellow
team members.

[How to Do Code Reviews Like a Human (Part One)](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/)

Commit message:

Fix(guide): Add resources for version control

guide/english/working-in-tech/code-reviews/index.md, after:

---
title: Code Reviews
---
## Code Reviews

Code Reviews exist in order to improve the quality of the code in a software project and are common practice for many software development teams.
Code reviews involve team members looking into each others' code submissions to check for bugs, incorrect logic or 
potential improvements. A code review can be done amongst developers of the project under review, as well as developers from other teams in the same company.
To those who have not experienced the code review process before, 
it can be intimidating. However, it is an invaluable process to help you 
grow as a developer. Even if a review is just an explanation of the code to another programmer,
the feeling that your code is going to be read/ inspected by another programmer as well makes you write better code in many ways
(smaller methods, comments and no ["magic numbers"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_number_(programming))).

As to what is reviewed and when, well there is no clear answer.
Many teams have rules that every piece of code that checks-in in the version control system has to be reviewed by another programmer,
while other teams have whole days when they dedicate to code reviews across the team.

It is important to be humble throughout the code review process. Accept your mistakes, 
and be professional when pointing out improvements or errors in the code of your fellow
team members.

## Want to learn more?

* [GitHub Documentation](https://github.com/features/code-review) : Learn how to write better code and document your changes with version control
* [How to Do Code Reviews Like a Human (Part One)](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/)
