---
id: 6723cd54fc196dbd053f9dfb
title: Debugging JavaScript Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-debugging-javascript
---

# --description--

Review the concepts below to prepare for the upcoming quiz.

## Common Types of Error Messages

- **SyntaxError**: These errors happen when you write something incorrectly in your code, like missing a parenthesis, or a bracket. Think of it like a grammar mistake in a sentence.

```js
const arr = ["Beau", "Quincy" "Tom"]
```

- **ReferenceError**: There are several types of Reference Errors, triggered in different ways. The first type of reference error would be not defined variables. Another example of a ReferenceError is trying to access a variable, declared with `let` or `const`, before it has been defined.

```js
console.log(num);
const num = 50;
```

- **TypeError**: These errors occur when you try to perform an operation on the wrong type.

```js
const developerObj = {
  name: "Jessica",
  country: "USA",
  isEmployed: true
};

developerObj.map()
```

- **RangeError**: These errors happen when your code tries to use a value that's outside the range of what JavaScript can handle. 

```js
const arr = [];
arr.length = -1; 
```

## The `throw` Statement 

- **Definition**: The `throw` statement in JavaScript is used to throw a user defined exception. An exception in programming, is when an unexpected event happens and disrupts the normal flow of the program.

```js
function validateNumber(input) {
  if (typeof input !== "number") {
    throw new TypeError("Expected a number, but received " + typeof input);
  }
  return input * 2;
}
```

## `try...catch...finally`

- **Definition**: The `try` block is used to wrap code that might throw an error. It acts as a safe space to try something that could fail. The `catch` block captures and handles errors that occur in the try block. You can use the error object inside catch to inspect what went wrong. The `finally` block runs after the try and catch blocks, regardless of whether an error occurred. It's commonly used for cleanup tasks, such as closing files or releasing resources.

```js
function processInput(input) {
  if (typeof input !== "string") {
    throw new TypeError("Input must be a string.");
  }

  return input.toUpperCase();
}

try {
  console.log("Starting to process input...");
  const result = processInput(9);
  console.log("Processed result:", result);
} catch (error) {
  console.error("Error occurred:", error.message);
} 
```

## Debugging Techniques 

- **`debugger` Statement**: This statement lets you pause your code at a specific line to investigate what's going on in the program.

```js
let firstNumber = 5;
let secondNumber = 10;

debugger; // Code execution pauses here
let sum = firstNumber + secondNumber;

console.log(sum);
```

- **Breakpoints**: Breakpoints let you pause the execution of your code at a specific line of your choice. After the pause, you can inspect variables, evaluate expressions, and examine the call stack.
- **Watchers**: Watch expressions lets you monitor the values of variables or expressions as the code runs even if they are out of the current scope.
- **Profiling**: Profiling helps you identify performance bottlenecks by letting you capture screenshots and record CPU usage, function calls, and execution time.
- **`console.dir()`**: This method is used to display an interactive list of the properties of a specified JavaScript object. It outputs a hierarchical listing that can be expanded to see all nested properties.

```js
console.dir(document);
```

- **`console.table()`**: This method displays tabular data as a table in the console. It takes one mandatory argument, which must be an array or an object, and one optional argument to specify which properties (columns) to display.

# --assignment--

Review the Debugging JavaScript topics and concepts.
