guide/english/book-recommendations/javascript/index.md, before:

---
title: Books on JavaScript
---
 ### List of Books

#### Eloquent JavaScript

One of the best books on JavaScript. A must for both, beginners and intermediate programmers, who code in JavaScript. The best part is that the e-book is available for free.

- [E-book](https://eloquentjavascript.net/)(free)
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1593275846/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1593275846&linkCode=as2&tag=marijhaver-20&linkId=VPXXXSRYC5COG5R5)

#### You Don't Know JS

Six book series by Kyle Simpson. In-depth series on every aspect of JavaScript.

- [Github](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS)(free)
- [Kindle Version, Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/You-Dont-Know-Js-Book/dp/B01AY9P0P6)

#### JavaScript: The Good Parts

Book by the "grandfather" of JavaScript, Douglas Crockford. He discusses both the "good" and "bad" aspects of JavaScript.

- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-Good-Parts-Douglas-Crockford/dp/0596517742)

#### JavaScript: Info

A collection of articles covering the basics (core language and working with a browser) as well as advanced topics with concise explanations. Available as an e-book with pay and also as an online tutorial.

- [Online](https://javascript.info/)
- [E-book](https://javascript.info/ebook)

#### Other Resources

- A selection of online free resources; including e-books for JavaScript are available at [JS Books](https://jsbooks.revolunet.com/)

Commit message:

Added new JS book recommendation

guide/english/book-recommendations/javascript/index.md, after:

---
title: Books on JavaScript
---
 ### List of Books

#### Eloquent JavaScript

One of the best books on JavaScript. A must for both, beginners and intermediate programmers, who code in JavaScript. The best part is that the e-book is available for free.

- [E-book](https://eloquentjavascript.net/)(free)
- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1593275846/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1593275846&linkCode=as2&tag=marijhaver-20&linkId=VPXXXSRYC5COG5R5)

#### You Don't Know JS

Six book series by Kyle Simpson. In-depth series on every aspect of JavaScript.

- [Github](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS)(free)
- [Kindle Version, Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/You-Dont-Know-Js-Book/dp/B01AY9P0P6)

#### JavaScript: The Good Parts

Book by the "grandfather" of JavaScript, Douglas Crockford. He discusses both the "good" and "bad" aspects of JavaScript.

- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-Good-Parts-Douglas-Crockford/dp/0596517742)

#### JavaScript: Info

A collection of articles covering the basics (core language and working with a browser) as well as advanced topics with concise explanations. Available as an e-book with pay and also as an online tutorial.

- [Online](https://javascript.info/)
- [E-book](https://javascript.info/ebook)

#### A Smarter Way To Learn JavaScript

A collection of articles covering the basics (core language and working with a browser) as well as advanced topics with concise explanations. Available as an e-book with pay and also as an online tutorial.

- [Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Smarter-JavaScript-tech-assisted-approach-requires/dp/1497408180/ref=tmm_pap_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&qid=&sr=)
- [E-book](https://www.amazon.com/Smarter-Way-Learn-JavaScript-technology-ebook/dp/B00H1W9I6C)

#### Other Resources

- A selection of online free resources; including e-books for JavaScript are available at [JS Books](https://jsbooks.revolunet.com/)
