---
id: 657b718282cd56bb91a795de
title: Task 30
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-30
audioPath: curriculum/js-music-player/We-Are-Going-to-Make-it.mp3
---

<!-- (audio) ​​Sophie: That's cool! I like it, but I don't think of it as a hobby. I play the guitar in my free time. -->

# --description--

In English, some verbs are conjugated. This means they change the form according to the person you are talking about. For most verbs, when we talk about another person like `he,` `she,` or `it,` we add an `-s` or `-es` to the verb. 

For example: If you talk about Tom and photography you can say: `Tom takes photographs,` not `Tom take photographs.` This is how you show in your sentence that the action is done by Tom in the present tense.

For negative sentences, you can use `doesn't` followed by the base form of the verb. 

You do not add `-s` or `-es.` because `does` is already conjugated (`do+es`).

For example, if Tom doesn't do video recording as a hobby, you can say, `He doesn't record videos.`.

Understanding this difference is crucial for talking about habits and actions accurately. Now, let's apply this understanding to what Sophie does in her free time.


# --question--

## --text--

Listen to what Sophie says about playing the guitar and pick the statement that is correct.

## --answers--

`Does Sophie play the guitar?`

### --feedback--

This is a question, not a statement. You need to find the statement that correctly describes when Sophie plays the guitar.

---

`Sophie doesn't play the guitar.`

### --feedback--

This statement is negative. Does Sophie say she doesn't play the guitar, or is this not true?

---

`Sophie play guitar in her free time.`

### --feedback--

This sentence is missing the third person `s` at the end of `plays.` Remember the rule for verbs in the third person singular form.

---

`Sophie plays the guitar in her free time.`

## --video-solution--

4
