---
id: 657cb68bf15f349a744b5fba
title: Task 43
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-43
---

# --description--

When you want to learn about a person’s character or personality without specifying their gender, you can use `they` as a singular pronoun and ask, `What are they like?`.

This is a respectful and inclusive way to ask about someone. Using `they` in this way ensures that you don't make assumptions about people. Example:

Imagine there is a new team member joining your programming project, but you haven’t met them yet. Instead of assuming their gender, you can ask your supervisor, `What are they like?` 

This question helps you find out about the new member's personality, such as being organized, creative, or detail-oriented.

**Note:** The question `What are they like?` can also refer to multiple people or a group. For example, if you're asking about a new team or a group of people you will be working with, you can use this question to learn about the group's personality or dynamic.

# --questions--

## --text--

Choose the correct question for asking about a person's personality and character traits in a gender-neutral way.

## --answers--

`What do they like?`

### --feedback--

`What do they like?` is used to inquire about someone's preferences or interests.

---

`What is they like?`

### --feedback--

`What is they like?` is not grammatically correct in English.

---

`What are they like?`

---

`What do they looks like?`

### --feedback--

`What do they looks like?` is incorrect; it mixes up the structure for asking about personality with the structure for asking about physical appearance and also uses a plural verb `looks` with a singular pronoun `they.`

## --video-solution--

3
