---
id: 6856e1638605b120c66468d1
title: Task 110
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-110
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`practical`, `AR apps`, `digital information`, `anything`, `interactive`, and `physical world`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Sophie: Tom, do you know BLANK about Augmented Reality apps?`

`Tom: Oh, I love AR! It's a mix of BLANK and the real world. You can use it for games, navigation, and even interior design.`

`Sophie: How does it work, exactly?`

`Tom: BLANK use your device's camera to add digital content to the BLANK. It's so cool! For example, in gaming, you can chase virtual creatures in your neighborhood.`

`Sophie: That sounds fun! Are there any BLANK applications for AR?`

`Tom: Oh yeah! In education, AR can make learning BLANK. Architects and interior designers also use AR to visualize how furniture will look in a space, for example.`

## --blanks--

`anything`

### --feedback--

This means any object, idea, or action.

---

`digital information`

### --feedback--

Data that is stored or shown using computers or the internet.

---

`AR apps`

### --feedback--

Apps that add computer images or info to the real world using your phone or device.

---

`physical world`

### --feedback--

The real world around you that you can see and touch.

---

`practical`

### --feedback--

Useful and helpful in real-life situations.

---

`interactive`

### --feedback--

This means you can touch, move, or respond to something, and it reacts.
