---
id: 68f890b73bbfc9efa7379e7b
title: Debug Type Coercion Errors in a Buggy App
challengeType: 26
dashedName: debug-type-coercion-errors-in-a-buggy-app
---

# --description--

You’ve just joined a local web development shop, and your first assignment is to clean up some buggy code left behind by the previous developers.

They were attempting simple arithmetic operations, but something went wrong, the results don’t make sense. Your task is to review, debug, and correct the code so it performs as expected and is easier to read.

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab. 

**User Stories:**

1. You should fix the value for the `firstResult` variable. The value currently results to  `"510"`. But the correct value should be the sum of those two values resulting in the number 15. There is a mismatch of data types that needs to be resolved. 
2. You should fix the value for the `secondResult` variable. The value currently results to `NaN `. But the correct value should be the subtraction of those two values resulting in the number 3. 
3. You should fix the value for the `thirdResult` variable. The value currently results to 6 which is correct.  But it is not ideal to add a boolean type to a number type like this. Update the value so only two numbers add up to the correct result of 6.
4. You should fix the value for the `fourthResult` variable. The value currently results to 8 which is correct.  But it is not ideal to add a boolean type to a number type like this. Update the value so only two numbers add up to the correct result of 8.
5. You should fix the value for the `fifthResult` variable. The value currently results to 20 which is correct.  But it is not ideal to multiply a string type to a number type like this. Update the value so only two numbers result in the product of 20.
6. You should fix the value for the `sixthResult` variable. The value currently results to 22 which is correct.  But it is not ideal to add `null` to a number type like this. Update the value so only two numbers add up to the correct result of 22.

# --hints--

Test 1

```js

```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```js
const firstResult = 5 + "10";
console.log(`5 + 10 = ${firstResult}`);

const secondResult = "Eight" - 5;
console.log(`8 - 5 = ${secondResult}`);

const thirdResult = true + 5;
console.log(`1 + 5 = ${thirdResult}`);

const fourthResult = false + 8;
console.log(`0 + 8 = ${fourthResult}`);

const fifthResult = "10" * 2;
console.log(`10 * 2 = ${fifthResult}`);

const sixthResult = null + 22;
console.log(`0 + 22 = ${sixthResult}`);
```

# --solutions--

```js
const firstResult = 5 + 10;
console.log(`5 + 10 = ${firstResult}`);

const secondResult = 8 - 5;
console.log(`8 - 5 = ${secondResult}`);

const thirdResult = 1 + 5;
console.log(`1 + 5 = ${thirdResult}`);

const fourthResult = 0 + 8;
console.log(`0 + 8 = ${fourthResult}`);

const fifthResult = 10 * 2;
console.log(`10 * 2 = ${fifthResult}`);

const sixthResult = 0 + 22;
console.log(`0 + 22 = ${sixthResult}`);
```
