---
id: 6723ca166fe90eb0a3146848
title: JavaScript Fundamentals Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-javascript-fundamentals
---

# --description--

Review the concepts below to prepare for the upcoming quiz.

## String Constructor and `toString()` Method

- **Definition**: A string object is used to represent a sequence of characters. String objects are created using the `String` constructor function, which wraps the primitive value in an object. 

```js
const greetingObject = new String("Hello, world!");

console.log(typeof greetingObject); // "object"
```

- **`toString()` Method**: This method converts a value to its string representation. It is a method you can use for numbers, booleans, arrays, and objects.

```js
const num = 10;
console.log(num.toString()); // "10"

const arr = [1, 2, 3];
console.log(arr.toString()); // "1,2,3"
```

This method accepts an optional radix which is a number from 2 to 36. This radix represents the base, such as base 2 for binary or base 8 for octal. If the radix is not specified, it defaults to base 10, which is decimal.


```js
const num = 10;
console.log(num.toString(2)); // "1010"(binary)
```

## Number Constructor

- **Definition**: The `Number` constructor is used to create a number object. The number object contains a few helpful properties and methods like the `isNaN` and `toFixed` method. Most of the time, you will be using the `Number` constructor to convert other data types to the number data type.

```js
const myNum = new Number("34");
console.log(typeof myNum); // "object"

const num = Number('100');
console.log(num); // 100

console.log(typeof num); // number
```

## Best Practices for Naming Variables and Functions

- **camelCasing**: By convention, JavaScript developers will use camel casing for naming variables and functions. Camel casing is where the first word is all lowercase and the following words start with a capital letter. Ex. `isLoading`.

- **Naming Booleans**: For boolean variables, it's a common practice to use prefixes such as "is", "has", or "can". 

```js
let isLoading = true;
let hasPermission = false;
let canEdit = true;
```

- **Naming Functions**: For functions, the name should clearly indicate what the function does. For functions that return a boolean (often called predicates), you can use the same "is", "has", or "can" prefixes. When you have functions that retrieve data, it is common to start with the word "get". When you have functions that set data, it is common start with the word "set". For event handler functions, you might prefix with "handle" or suffix with "Handler". 

```js
function getUserData() { /* ... */ }

function isValidEmail(email) { /* ... */ }

function getProductDetails(productId) { /* ... */ }

function setUserPreferences(preferences) { /* ... */ }

function handleClick() { /* ... */ }
```

- **Naming Variables Inside Loops**: When naming iterator variables in loops, it's common to use single letters like `i`, `j`, or `k`.

```js
for (let i = 0; i < array.length; i++) { /* ... */ }
```

## Working with Sparse Arrays

- **Definition**: It is possible to have arrays with empty slots. Empty slots are defined as slots with nothing in them. This is different than array slots with the value of `undefined`. These types of arrays are known as sparse arrays. 

```js
const sparseArray = [1, , , 4];
console.log(sparseArray.length); // 4
```
  
## Linters and Formatters 

- **Linters**: A linter is a static code analysis tool that flags programming errors, bugs, stylistic errors, and suspicious constructs. An example of a common linter would be ESLint. 
- **Formatters**: Formatters are tools that automatically format your code to adhere to a specific style guide. An example of a common formatter would be Prettier.

## Memory Management 

- **Definition**: Memory management is the process of controlling the memory, allocating it when needed and freeing it up when it's no longer needed. JavaScript uses automatic memory management. This means that JavaScript (more specifically, the JavaScript engine in your web browser) takes care of memory allocation and deallocation for you.  You don't have to explicitly free up memory in your code. This automatic process is often called "garbage collection."

## Closures 

- **Definition**: A closure is a function that has access to variables in its outer (enclosing) lexical scope, even after the outer function has returned. 

```js
function outerFunction(x) {
  let y = 10;
  function innerFunction() {
    console.log(x + y);
  }
  return innerFunction;
}

let closure = outerFunction(5);
closure(); // 15
```

## `var` Keyword and Hoisting 

- **Definition**: `var` was the original way to declare variables before 2015. But there were some issues that came with `var` in terms of scope, redeclaration and more. So that is why modern JavaScript programming uses `let` and `const` instead.
- **Redeclaring Variables with `var`**: If you try to redeclare a variable using `let`, then you would get a `SyntaxError`. But with `var`, you are allowed to redeclare a variable. 

```js
// Uncaught SyntaxError: Identifier 'num' has already been declared 
let num = 19;
let num = 18;

var myNum = 5;
var myNum = 10; // This is allowed and doesn't throw an error

console.log(myNum) // 10
```

- **`var` and Scope**: Variables declared with `var` inside a block (like an `if` statement or a `for` loop) are still accessible outside that block. 

```js
if (true) {
    var num = 5;
}
console.log(num); // 5
```

- **Hoisting**: This is JavaScript's default behavior of moving declarations to the top of their respective scopes during the compilation phase before the code is executed. When you declare a variable using the `var` keyword, JavaScript hoists the declaration to the top of its scope. 

```js
console.log(num); // undefined
var num = 5;
console.log(num); // 5
```

When you declare a function using the function declaration syntax, both the function name and the function body are hoisted. This means you can call a function before you've declared it in your code.

```js
sayHello(); // "Hello, World!"

function sayHello() {
  console.log("Hello, World!");
}
```

Variable declarations made with `let` or `const` are hoisted, but they are not initialized, and you can't access them before the actual declaration in your code. This behavior is often referred to as the "temporal dead zone".

```js
console.log(num); // Throws a ReferenceError
let num = 10;
```

## Working with Imports, Exports and Modules

- **Module**: This is a self-contained unit of code that encapsulates related functions, classes, or variables.
- **Imports and Exports**: It is common practice to have separate files for reusable pieces of code like helper functions or arrays that you wish to use across many files. To do this, you would need to export that code and import it in the file you wish to use it in.

```js
// This function is located in a file called math.js
export function add(num1, num2) {
    return num1 + num2;
}

// We can import the add function from the math.js file
import { add } from './math.js';

// This line imports everything from the file
// import * as Math from './math.js';

console.log(add(5, 3)); // 8
```

# --assignment--

Review the JavaScript Fundamentals topics and concepts.
