---
title: SSH
---
## SSH

Secure Shell (SSH) is a cryptographic network protocol intended for secure data transfer over insecure networks.

It is most commonly used for accessing remote servers. Usually these servers are Linux or BSD based, though other platforms may offer SSH access as well. Also it is worth noting that other computational appliances, particularly those for networking such as switches or routers, may have SSH as well. SSH is also used in distributed source code versioning software like git.

From a networking perspective SSH may, dependent on the server and client software, allow for more advanced features such as XServer forwarding for remote access of graphical applications or network tunneling to allow for what is effectively a Virtual Private Network (VPN).

While SSH has 'Secure' in its name, its prevalence makes it an attractive target to attackers. As such it is often configured to use more elaborate methods than simple passwords. Most commonly this is done with keys in a public and private key cryptography system. The exact cryptographic method can vary as well, with RSA being the most common.

As with most network services SSH has a standard network port, 22; however, as SSH is an attractive target for those wishing to do harm, it is often moved to an arbitrary port as a very simple security measure.

Finally, it's worth mentioning that SSH is far from tolerant of network instability and there are options out there which can either improve this or replace SSH outright.

### How SSH Works

When you connect through SSH, you will be dropped into a shell session, which is a text-based interface where you can interact with your server. For the duration of your SSH session, any commands that you type into your local terminal are sent through an encrypted SSH tunnel and executed on your server.

The SSH connection is implemented using a client-server model. This means that for an SSH connection to be established, the remote machine must be running a piece of software called an SSH daemon. This software listens for connections on a specific network port, authenticates connection requests, and spawns the appropriate environment if the user provides the correct credentials.

The user's computer must have an SSH client. This is a piece of software that knows how to communicate using the SSH protocol and can be given information about the remote host to connect to, the username to use, and the credentials that should be passed to authenticate. The client can also specify certain details about the connection type they would like to establish.
How SSH Authenticates Users

Clients generally authenticate either using passwords (less secure and not recommended) or SSH keys, which are very secure.

Password logins are encrypted and are easy to understand for new users. However, automated bots and malicious users will often repeatedly try to authenticate to accounts that allow password-based logins, which can lead to security compromises. For this reason, we recommend always setting up SSH key-based authentication for most configurations.

SSH keys are a matching set of cryptographic keys which can be used for authentication. Each set contains a public and a private key. The public key can be shared freely without concern, while the private key must be vigilantly guarded and never exposed to anyone.

To authenticate using SSH keys, a user must have an SSH key pair on their local computer. On the remote server, the public key must be copied to a file within the user's home directory at ~/.ssh/authorized_keys. This file contains a list of public keys, one-per-line, that are authorized to log into this account.

When a client connects to the host, wishing to use SSH key authentication, it will inform the server of this intent and will tell the server which public key to use. The server then check its authorized_keys file for the public key, generate a random string and encrypts it using the public key. This encrypted message can only be decrypted with the associated private key. The server will send this encrypted message to the client to test whether they actually have the associated private key.

Upon receipt of this message, the client will decrypt it using the private key and combine the random string that is revealed with a previously negotiated session ID. It then generates an MD5 hash of this value and transmits it back to the server. The server already had the original message and the session ID, so it can compare an MD5 hash generated by those values and determine that the client must have the private key.

Now that you know how SSH works, we can begin to discuss some examples to demonstrate different ways of working with SSH
