---
id: 685a7852682d74152ccb5769
title: Task 25
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-25
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`update`, `we are going`, `focus on`, `engage with`, `achieve our goals`, `suggest that`, and `product launch`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Brian: Hi team, thanks for joining the call. Let's discuss our strategy for the upcoming BLANK.`

`Sophie: I think we're going to BLANK social media marketing. It's cost-effective and it will reach a broader audience.`

`Brian: That sounds good. I BLANK we also invest in email marketing. It's more targeted and it will allow us to BLANK our subscribers directly.`

`Sophie: I'm okay with that.`

`Brian: Great. So BLANK to create a detailed marketing plan combining social media and email marketing. It will help us BLANK.`

`Sophie: Perfect. We'll work on it and meet again next week for an BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`product launch`

### --feedback--

When a new product is released and made available to users.

---

`focus on`

### --feedback--

To give most of your attention to something.

---

`suggest that`

### --feedback--

To offer an idea or opinion.

---

`engage with`

### --feedback--

To connect or interact with someone or something.

---

`we are going`

### --feedback--

Talking about what will happen or what is planned.

---

`achieve our goals`

### --feedback--

To successfully do what you planned or wanted to do.

---

`update`

### --feedback--

New information or changes shared with others.
