---
id: 68dbf2b25df6176d3df4fe1b
title: How the Certification Works
challengeType: 24
dashedName: how-the-certification-works
lang: es
---

# --description--

Welcome to the **A1 Spanish for Professionals** certification, Camper!

This program is all about guiding you **step by step** as you build real, practical Spanish skills from the ground up that you can use in professional settings.

Here’s a breakdown of how the certification is structured:

## Chapters and Modules

The entire certification is divided into **chapters**, and each chapter contains several **modules**. You can think of a chapter as a major topic and a module as a specific, focused lesson within that topic.

Every **module** focuses on a specific communication goal based on different professional situations. To help you get into a smooth learning rhythm, the modules will often follow the same structure.

### **Warm-up** 

You'll start by meeting new **words and phrases** or reviewing content that's relevant to the module. You’ll complete short tasks to recognize and get familiar with the key vocabulary.

### **Learn** 

This is where you'll see the new words in action! You'll listen to short **monologues or dialogues** and answer questions to understand their meaning and how they're used in real conversations.

### **Practice** 

Time to try it out! You'll complete more open-ended tasks that test your comprehension and your ability to write in Spanish.

### **Review** 

At the end of each module, you'll find a **grammar summary** and a **glossary**. These are helpful reference tools that you can use to reinforce what you've learned and revisit later if you need a quick refresher.

### **Quiz** 

Finally, you'll find a short quiz to assess your understanding at the end of each module. Quizzes usually include **10 to 20 questions** and are designed to test your knowledge without hints. Don't worry, you can retake them as many times as you need, and your score is completely private.

<br>

## Learn at Your Own Pace

This certification is **self-paced**, which means you are **free to learn on your own schedule**. Whether you power through it on a weekend or do a little bit each day, it's completely up to you!

If you ever get stuck or just need a little support, you can click on the **Ask for Help** button. That will connect you with other learners in the forum where you can ask questions and help each other out.

<br>


## A Quick Tech Note

Since you'll be doing some writing practice, you'll need to make sure you have the **Spanish Keyboard** setup on your laptop or mobile device. This is important for easily typing accents and other special characters.

***The instructions on how to set up the Spanish keyboard are up next!***

# --assignment--

I've read the "How the Certification Works" article.
