---
id: 66ce3ac6e902e370d88a56ca
title: Task 40
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-40
---
<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

A user decided to email the team to talk about specific issues they are experiencing:

`Hi Team,`

`I wanted to let you know that some elements on your homepage aren't displaying correctly on my mobile device. The navigation bar and footer seem to overlap and haven't been adapting well to smaller screens.`

`I've attached a few screenshots showing the issue.`

`Thanks for looking into this!`

What evidence does the user provide to show the issue with the homepage?

## --answers--

They describe the issue in detail.

### --feedback--

The user does describe the issue, but think about whether they provided something more practical as evidence.

---

They provide links to webpages.

### --feedback--

Reflect on whether the user mentioned any links or something else as evidence.

---

They attach screenshots.

---

They include a video of the problem.

### --feedback--

Consider if the user mentioned attaching a video or another type of evidence.
  
## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

To find the correct answer, focus on the evidence the user provides in the email. 

The user mentions that they have `attached a few screenshots showing the issue`. This indicates they are providing visual proof to help the team understand the problem with the `navigation bar` and `footer` on mobile devices. 

Look for an option that reflects this specific type of evidence —`screenshots`— as the user uses this visual method to demonstrate the issue.
