---
id: 67c60cfda746c444008ce7fa
title: Task 50
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-50
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Bob, Maria sends the team an email with the updates and asks them to have their meeting on the following day two hours earlier, so they could talk about the client's request.

`Subject: Updated Meeting Time – Project Timeline Discussion`

`Hi everyone,`

`I wanted to update you on crucial points in a discussion I had with Bob about our project timeline. The client has requested if we can finish it one week in advance, and we've been thinking of ways to speed things up while trying to prevent burnout.`

`To ensure we're all aligned, I'd like to adjust our meeting time to tomorrow morning at 8, two hours earlier than our previously scheduled time. We'll discuss the revised schedule I'll come up with today, task prioritization, ways to avoid putting in additional hours, and any support you might need to make things run more smoothly.`

`We understand that rearranging tasks doesn't always solve the problem, and we want to be careful not to overwork the team. I'd love to hear your thoughts on the best way to approach this challenge.`

`Please confirm if the new time works for you. Thanks for your flexibility and commitment.`

`Best,`

`Maria`

Based on the subject line, what are the most important things Maria is messaging the team about?

## --answers--

That the client is unhappy with their progress.  

### --feedback--

The email does not mention the client being unhappy.  

---

That the meeting will be moved to an earlier time and that they will discuss the project timeline.  

---

That Bob has made a final decision about the deadline.  

### --feedback--

Maria doesn't say that a final decision has been made.

---

That extra hours will be required for the project.  

### --feedback--

Maria actually states they are trying to avoid that.

## --video-solution--

2  

# --explanation--

The answer to this question can be found in the `Subject` line. It highlights the two key points of Maria's email. By reading the rest of the email, we see Maria explains both points in more detail, confirming that these are the main topics she is addressing.
