---
id: 67c611c971557b4fe70ae623
title: Task 51
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-51
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Bob, Maria sends the team an email with the updates and asks them to have their meeting on the following day two hours earlier, so they could talk about the client's request.

`Subject: Updated Meeting Time – Project Timeline Discussion`

`Hi everyone,`

`I wanted to update you on crucial points in a discussion I had with Bob about our project timeline. The client has requested if we can finish it one week in advance, and we've been thinking of ways to speed things up while trying to prevent burnout.`

`To ensure we're all aligned, I'd like to adjust our meeting time to tomorrow morning at 8, two hours earlier than our previously scheduled time. We'll discuss the revised schedule I'll come up with today, task prioritization, ways to avoid putting in additional hours, and any support you might need to make things run more smoothly.`

`We understand that rearranging tasks doesn't always solve the problem, and we want to be careful not to overwork the team. I'd love to hear your thoughts on the best way to approach this challenge.`

`Please confirm if the new time works for you. Thanks for your flexibility and commitment.`

`Best,`

`Maria`

According to the initial paragraph, what is the reason for the change of plans for the meeting tomorrow?  

## --answers--

The team requested an earlier meeting.  

### --feedback--

The email does not mention the team asking for a time change.

---

Maria needs more time to complete the schedule.

### --feedback--

Maria says she will work on the schedule today, but that is not the reason for the meeting change.

---

The client asked if the project could be finished one week earlier and they need to discuss ways of making that happen.

---

Bob and Maria finished their discussion late.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention their discussion ending late as a reason for the change.

## --video-solution--

3  

# --explanation--

To find the answer, look at the **first paragraph** of the email after the greeting. There, Maria talks about a client's request and why they need to discuss it. 
