---
id: 67c613b1162f59558858c0ab
title: Task 52
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-52
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Bob, Maria sends the team an email with the updates and asks them to have their meeting on the following day two hours earlier, so they could talk about the client's request.

`Subject: Updated Meeting Time – Project Timeline Discussion`

`Hi everyone,`

`I wanted to update you on crucial points in a discussion I had with Bob about our project timeline. The client has requested if we can finish it one week in advance, and we've been thinking of ways to speed things up while trying to prevent burnout.`

`To ensure we're all aligned, I'd like to adjust our meeting time to tomorrow morning at 8, two hours earlier than our previously scheduled time. We'll discuss the revised schedule I'll come up with today, task prioritization, ways to avoid putting in additional hours, and any support you might need to make things run more smoothly.`

`We understand that rearranging tasks doesn't always solve the problem, and we want to be careful not to overwork the team. I'd love to hear your thoughts on the best way to approach this challenge.`

`Please confirm if the new time works for you. Thanks for your flexibility and commitment.`

`Best,`

`Maria`

According to the email, during the meeting, Bob and Maria thought of ways to do one thing and prevent another at the same time. What are they?

## --answers--

Speed things up and prevent burnout.  

---

Extend the deadline and reduce costs.  

### --feedback--

The email states that the client requested an earlier deadline.

---

Hire more people and improve communication.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention hiring more people or focusing on communication.

---

Cancel some tasks and reduce working hours.

### --feedback--

Maria doesn't talk about canceling tasks. She doesn't talk about reducing working hours, either.

## --video-solution--

1  

# --explanation--

To find the answer, look at the **first paragraph** of the email after the greeting. After talking about the client's request, she mentions what they have been thinking of. You'll find the answer to this question there.
