---
id: 67c9d9f174a5497fa2162cd7
title: Task 114
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-114
---

<!-- (Audio) Bob: I see. Did they mention why they think it's too tight? -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and answer the question below.  

# --questions--

## --text--

What does Bob want to know?

## --answers--

If Maria wants to extend the deadline.

### --feedback--

Bob is not asking about Maria's decision.

---

Whether the client changed the deadline again.

### --feedback--

Bob is not asking about the client's actions.

---

How much time the team has to complete the project.

### --feedback--

Bob is not asking about the timeframe.

---

The reason the team thinks the deadline is difficult to meet.

## --video-solution--

4  

# --explanation--

When you ask a question that includes another question inside it, the second question follows a normal sentence structure (subject + verb), not a question structure. For example:

`Do you know where he put the report?` - The question `where did he put the report?` follows another question, `Do you know...`, so you should use an affirmative sentence structure with it. `Do you know where did he put the report?`, thus, would be incorrect.

This happens because `Do you know` is already making the sentence a question. The second part, `where he put the report`, is the information the person wants to know, so it follows the normal subject-verb order of affirmative sentences.

Compare it to a direct question:

`Where did he put the report?`

Here, `Where` starts the question, so you need the usual question structure (`did he put`).

Another example:

`Did she explain why the meeting was canceled?` - Here, the question is `Did she explain` and `why the meeting was canceled` is the information she explained. `Did she explain why was the meeting canceled?` would be incorrect.

As a rule of thumb, if the sentence starts with the question word (`Where`, `Why`, `How` etc.), use the question word order, as in `Where did he go?`. If the question word comes after another question, use normal word order, as in `Do you know where he went?`.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company2-boardroom.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Bob",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 15,
          "z": 1.2
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_12-3.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 11.78,
      "finishTimestamp": 14.54
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Bob",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Bob",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 3.76,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "I see. Did they mention why they think it's too tight?",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Bob",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 4.26
    }
  ]
}
```
