---
id: 67e46c53c43ce77a64dcb082
title: Task 39
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-39
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to James, Alice wrote an email to the client. Here's its content:

`Subject: Request for Updated Project Requirements and New Timeline`

`Dear David,`

`I hope you're doing well.`

`I wanted to reach out to confirm the new project requirements following our recent discussions. We've made some adjustments to the timeline due to recent changes and need to ensure we're aligned on the updated requirements before proceeding.`

`We're proposing a new deadline for the first phase of the project at the end of next month. Please let us know if this works for you or if there are any additional adjustments we should consider.`

`Additionally, James has sent me the updated project plan, which I've attached to this email for your review. Please take a look and let us know if everything looks good on your end.`

`Looking forward to your confirmation and any further input you may have.`

`Best regards,`  

`Alice`

What is Alice's proposed deadline for the first phase?

## --answers--

The end of this month.

### --feedback--

Alice does not suggest a deadline for the end of *this* month.

---

In two weeks.

### --feedback--

The proposed deadline is not set for two weeks from now.

---

Next week.

### --feedback--

The deadline is not set for next week.

---

The end of next month.

## --video-solution--

4

# --explanation--

Search for the line that mentions `the first phase` of the project. This is where the proposed deadline is mentioned. Read it and you'll be able to correctly answer this question.
