---
id: 685e5b186e34570dd3d2ff19
title: Task 58
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-58
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`from HR`, `runs smoothly`, `committed`, `willing to help`, `interviews`, and `easygoing`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Tom: Hey, have you ever worked with Anna BLANK?`

`Alice: I've seen her a couple of times. Why do you ask?`

`Tom: Well, I noticed that she's always in her office super early and leaves pretty late. Do you know why?`

`Alice: Yeah, she's very BLANK. She seems to take her work very seriously.`

`Tom: I don't really know much about her, to be honest. What's her role?`

`Alice: Anna is the head of HR, and she has to make sure our company BLANK when it comes to HR. She doesn't have to interview for hiring people, though. The rest of the HR team does the BLANK. She's been with us for about eight years now.`

`Tom: Wow, that's a long time! Is she a strict person?`

`Alice: She's very BLANK, actually. She's serious when it comes to work but also has a good sense of humor. She's fair and supportive, always BLANK and answer questions.`

`Tom: She sounds like a great person. I should have a chat with her sometime.`

## --blanks--

`from HR`

### --feedback--

A person that comes from the `Human Resources` team.

---

`committed`

### --feedback--

Loyal and serious about doing something well.

---

`runs smoothly`

### --feedback--

Happens without problems or delays.

---

`interviews`

### --feedback--

Meetings where someone is asked questions, usually for a job.

---

`easygoing`

### --feedback--

Relaxed and not easily upset.

---

`willing to help`

### --feedback--

Happy to give support or do something for someone.
