---
id: 6636f652561a9842e74b032a
title: Task 31
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-31
---

<!-- (Audio) Lisa: It's one of those trends that's making cloud computing even more convenient. -->

# --description--

`Cloud computing` is a technology that allows people to access and use computer resources, like storage and processing power, over the internet. It means that instead of having data and programs stored on your personal computer or server, they are hosted on a network of virtual servers accessed through the cloud (internet). This makes it possible to access data and applications from anywhere, as long as there is an internet connection.

Examples of `cloud computing` services include Google Drive for storage and Amazon Web Services for various computing services.

The comparative form `more convenient` is used to describe something that is easier to use or better suited to a particular need, making things simpler or saving time compared to other options. For example, online shopping is often seen as `more convenient` than going to a store because you can do it from home.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`It's one of those trends that's making BLANK BLANK even BLANK BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`cloud`

### --feedback--

This term refers to internet-based computing where services are delivered to an organization's computers and devices through the Internet.

---

`computing`

### --feedback--

It refers to the process of utilizing computer technology and processing power.

---

`more`

### --feedback--

This word is used to form the comparative for adjectives, indicating an increase in the degree or amount of the quality described.

---

`convenient`

### --feedback--

It describes something that is suitable for one's needs; easier or saving more time.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company2-breakroom.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Lisa",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 15,
          "z": 1.2
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "5.3-2.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 12.04,
      "finishTimestamp": 15.2
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Lisa",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Lisa",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 4.16,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "It's one of those trends that's making cloud computing even more convenient.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Lisa",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 4.66
    }
  ]
}
```
