---
id: 6638a7713695f25abd3f3c02
title: Task 49
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-49
---

<!-- (Audio) Sarah: It can improve code quality and reduce the time spent on debugging. -->

# --description--

The verb `improve` means to make something better or to enhance its quality. It's often used in various contexts, including in technological and personal development areas. When something is `improved`, it has been enhanced or developed in a positive way.

For example, `We can improve our coding skills by practicing regularly.`

The phrase `spend time on` is used to describe the action of using time for a particular purpose or activity. It implies that time is like a resource that can be used for various activities, emphasizing the investment of time in those activities. The past participle of `spend` is `spent`. When followed by an action, the verb is in the `-ing` form (gerund),

Examples are `I spend a lot of time on my hobbies.` and `I spend a lot of time reading books.`

`Debugging` is the process of finding and resolving defects or problems within a program.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`It can BLANK code quality and reduce the time BLANK BLANK BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`improve`

### --feedback--

This verb is used to express making something better or enhancing quality. Here, it refers to making the code quality better.

---

`spent`

### --feedback--

This is the past participle of a verb meaning to use time for some activity.

---

`on`

### --feedback--

This preposition is used to indicate that something is focused on a particular activity.

---

`debugging`

### --feedback--

This noun refers to the process of identifying, tracing, and fixing errors in computer programs.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company2-parking.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Sarah",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 0,
          "z": 1.4
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "5.3-3.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 21.22,
      "finishTimestamp": 24.4
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Sarah",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Sarah",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 4.18,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "It can improve code quality and reduce the time spent on debugging.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Sarah",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 4.68
    }
  ]
}
```
