---
id: 6859214362dab4169311ce7c
title: Task 23
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-23
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`low-code development`, `extensive coding`, `check out`, `convenient`, `software`, and `projects`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Brian: Hey Sarah, I read about BLANK on the internet and I got curious. Do you know what it's all about?`

`Sarah: Low-code development is about making BLANK with less code. It's one of those trends that simplifies the development process.`

`Brian: That sounds BLANK, but can we use it on our projects?`

`Sarah: We can consider low-code tools to speed up development and reduce the need for BLANK. It's particularly useful when you have many tasks and a limited coding team.`

`Brian: I see. Maybe we could try it on some of our more demanding BLANK.`

`Sarah: I think so. Why don't we BLANK some of these tools to see if they can help us?`

`Brian: I'm on it.`

## --blanks--

`low-code development`

### --feedback--

Making software using simple tools that don't need much coding.

---

`software`

### --feedback--

Programs or apps that run on a computer or device.

---

`convenient`

### --feedback--

Easy and helpful to use.

---

`extensive coding`

### --feedback--

Writing a lot of code to build something.

---

`projects`

### --feedback--

Work or tasks you plan and build, often with goals and steps.

---

`check out`

### --feedback--

To look at something or try it to learn more.
