---
id: 685921b21282d316f55adc7f
title: Task 39
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-39
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`cloud computing`, `servers`, `serverless computing`, `workloads`, `app`, `server management`, and `handle`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Tom: Lisa, do you know what this BLANK trend is all about?`

`Lisa: Serverless computing is an interesting concept, Tom. It's when we run code without managing BLANK, like having computer helpers. It's one of those trends that's making BLANK even more convenient.`

`Tom: That sounds cool. Do you think we can use it for our upcoming project?`

`Lisa: Well, for our project, we can consider using serverless computing to build parts of our BLANK that need to scale easily. It's especially useful when we need to handle variable BLANK and want to save on BLANK tasks.`

`Tom: Got it. So we should explore serverless computing for the parts of our project that need to BLANK changing workloads. Good to know.`

## --blanks--

`serverless computing`

### --feedback--

Running apps without managing the servers yourself.

---

`servers`

### --feedback--

Powerful computers that store data and run programs for other devices.

---

`cloud computing`

### --feedback--

Using the internet to store data and run programs instead of using your own computer.

---

`app`

### --feedback--

A program designed to do a specific job, like messaging or shopping.

---

`workloads`

### --feedback--

The amount of work a computer system needs to do.

---

`server management`

### --feedback--

Taking care of servers, like updating and fixing them.

---

`handle`

### --feedback--

To take care of or deal with something.
