guide/english/documentation/index.md, before:

---
title: Code documentation
---
## Code Documentation

Code documentation is a way developers write their code to create the best versions of their functions possible. Code Documentation lets the newbie to get comfortable with the customs of the particular module, functions etc for a particular programming language. It is always recommended to go with the documentation before debugging your code, this helps you to debug effectively.

For example, if you happen to pass along your code to an absolute beginner, they should be able to follow along through comments, appropriate variable names and that means structuring the code in a spaced, readable manner. 

It may become an extremely important idea to make a habit out of commenting your functions, loops, and declarations and treating comments as part of the source code, just as regular code should be.

![An example of commenting in the real world](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1620/1*Pyxsc7Uixbitv5myywaA_Q.jpeg)

<!-- The article goes here, in GitHub-flavored Markdown. Feel free to add YouTube videos, images, and CodePen/JSBin embeds  -->

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->


*[Medium Article about Code Documentation](https://medium.com/@andrewgoldis/how-to-document-source-code-responsibly-2b2f303aa525)

*[Code Tuts top 15 Best Practices](https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/top-15-best-practices-for-writing-super-readable-code--net-8118)

*[Medium Article "The Good, The Bad, The Ugly"](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/code-comments-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-be9cc65fbf83)

*[Medium Article about how to document source code](https://medium.com/@andrewgoldis/how-to-document-source-code-responsibly-2b2f303aa525)

Commit message:

Added line 12
Some programmers unfortunately don't commit to do it this way and write comments only they will understand

guide/english/documentation/index.md, after:

---
title: Code documentation
---
## Code Documentation

Code documentation is a way developers write their code to create the best versions of their functions possible. Code Documentation lets the newbie to get comfortable with the customs of the particular module, functions etc for a particular programming language. It is always recommended to go with the documentation before debugging your code, this helps you to debug effectively.

For example, if you happen to pass along your code to an absolute beginner, they should be able to follow along through comments, appropriate variable names and that means structuring the code in a spaced, readable manner. 

It may become an extremely important idea to make a habit out of commenting your functions, loops, and declarations and treating comments as part of the source code, just as regular code should be.

Some programmers unfortunately dont commit to it this way and write comments only they will understand

![An example of commenting in the real world](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1620/1*Pyxsc7Uixbitv5myywaA_Q.jpeg)

<!-- The article goes here, in GitHub-flavored Markdown. Feel free to add YouTube videos, images, and CodePen/JSBin embeds  -->

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->


*[Medium Article about Code Documentation](https://medium.com/@andrewgoldis/how-to-document-source-code-responsibly-2b2f303aa525)

*[Code Tuts top 15 Best Practices](https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/top-15-best-practices-for-writing-super-readable-code--net-8118)

*[Medium Article "The Good, The Bad, The Ugly"](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/code-comments-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-be9cc65fbf83)

*[Medium Article about how to document source code](https://medium.com/@andrewgoldis/how-to-document-source-code-responsibly-2b2f303aa525)
