---
id: 67c2bbd476f6e540b4c0b0d4
title: React State and Hooks Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-react-state-and-hooks
---

# --description--

## Working with Events in React

- **Synthetic Event System**: This is React's way of handling events. It serves as a wrapper around the native events like the `click`, `keydown`, and `submit` events. Event handlers in React use the camel casing naming convention. (Ex. `onClick`, `onSubmit`, etc)

Here is an example of using the `onClick` attribute for a `button` element in React:

```jsx
function handleClick() {
  console.log("Button clicked!");
}

<button onClick={handleClick}>Click Me</button>;
```

In React, event handler functions usually start with the prefix `handle` to indicate they are responsible for handling events, like `handleClick` or `handleSubmit`.

When a user action triggers an event, React passes a Synthetic Event object to your handler. This object behaves much like the native Event object in vanilla JavaScript, providing properties like `type`, `target`, and `currentTarget`.

To prevent default behaviors like browser refresh during an `onSubmit` event, for example, you can call the `preventDefault()` method:

```jsx
function handleSubmit(event) {
  event.preventDefault();
  console.log("Form submitted!");
}

<form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
  <input type="text" />
  <button>Submit</button>
</form>;
```

You can also wrap a handler function in an arrow function like this:

```jsx
function handleDelete(id) {
  console.log("Deleting item:", id);
}

<button onClick={() => handleDelete(1)}>Delete Item</button>;
```

## Working with State and the `useState` Hook

- **Definition for state**: In React, state is a object that contains data for a component. When the state updates the component will re-render. React treats state as immutable, meaning you should not modify it directly.  
- **`useState()` Hook**: The `useState` hook is a function that lets you declare state variables in functional components.  Here is an basic syntax:

```js
const [stateVariable, setStateFunction] = useState(initialValue);
```

In the state variable you have the following:

- `stateVariable` holds the current state value
- `setStateFunction` (the setter function) updates the state variable
- `initialValue` sets the initial state

Here is a complete example for a `Counter` component:

```jsx
import { useState } from "react";

function Counter() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>{count}</h2>

      <button onClick={() => setCount(count - 1)}>Decrement</button>
      <button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>Increment</button>
    </div>
  );
}

export default Counter;
```

## Rendering and React Components 

- **Definition**: In React, rendering is the process by which components appear in the user interface (UI), usually the browser. The rendering process consists of three stages: trigger, render, and commit.

The trigger stage occurs when React detects that something has changed and the user interface (UI) might need to be updated. This change is often due to an update in state or props.

Once the trigger happens, React enters the render stage. Here, React re-evaluates your components and figures out what to display. To do this, React uses a lightweight copy of the "real" DOM called the virtual DOM. With the virtual DOM, React can quickly check what needs to change in the component.

The commit stage is where React takes the prepared changes from the virtual DOM and applies them to the real DOM. In other words, this is the stage where you see the final result on the screen.

## Updating Objects and Arrays in State

- **Updating Objects in State**: If you need to update an object in state, then you should make a new object or copy an existing object first, then set the state for that new object. Any object put into state should be considered as read-only. Here is an example of setting a user's name, age and city. The `handleChange` function is used to handle updates to the user's information:

```jsx
import { useState } from "react";

function Profile() {
  const [user, setUser] = useState({ name: "John Doe", age: 31, city: "LA" });

  const handleChange = (e) => {
    const { name, value } = e.target;

    setUser((prevUser) => ({...prevUser, [name]: value}));
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>User Profile</h1>
      <p>Name: {user.name}</p>
      <p>Age: {user.age}</p>
      <p>City: {user.city}</p>

      <h2>Update User Age </h2>
      <input type="number" name="age" value={user.age} onChange={handleChange} />

      <h2>Update User Name </h2>
      <input type="text" name="name" value={user.name} onChange={handleChange} />

      <h2>Update User City </h2>
      <input type="text" name="city" value={user.city} onChange={handleChange} />
    </div>
  );
}

export default Profile;
```

- **Updating Arrays in State**: When updating arrays in state, it is important not to directly modify the array using methods like `push()` or `pop()`. Instead you should create a new array when updating state:

```jsx
const addItem = () => {
  const newItem = {
    id: items.length + 1,
    name: `Item ${items.length + 1}`,
  };

  // Creates a new array
  setItems((prevItems) => [...prevItems, newItem]);
};
```

If you want to remove items from an array, you should use the `filter()` method, which returns a new array after filtering out whatever you want to remove:

```jsx
const removeItem = (id) => {
  setItems((prevItems) => prevItems.filter((item) => item.id !== id));
};
```

## Referencing Values Using Refs

- **`ref` Attribute**: You can access a DOM node in React by using the `ref` attribute. Here is an example to showcase a `ref` to focus an `input` element. The `current` property is used to access the current value of that `ref`:

```jsx
import { useRef } from "react";

const Focus = () => {
  const inputRef = useRef(null);

  const handleFocus = () => {
    if (inputRef.current) {
      inputRef.current.focus();
    }
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <input ref={inputRef} type="text" placeholder="Enter text" />
      <button onClick={handleFocus}>Focus Input</button>
    </div>
  );
};

export default Focus;
```

## Working with the `useEffect` Hook

- **`useEffect()` Hook**: In React, an effect is anything that happens outside the component rendering process. That is, anything React does not handle directly as part of rendering the UI. Common examples include fetching data, updating the browser tab's title, reading from or writing to the browser's local storage, getting the user's location, and much more. These operations interact with the outside world and are known as side effects. React provides the `useEffect` hook to let you handle those side effects. `useEffect` lets you run a function after the component renders or updates.

```js
import { useEffect } from "react";

useEffect(() => {
 // Your side effect logic (usually a function) goes here
}, [dependencies]);
```

The effect function runs after the component renders, while the optional `dependencies` argument controls when the effect runs.

Note that `dependencies` can be an array of "reactive values" (state, props, functions, variables, and so on), an empty array, or omitted entirely. Here's how all of those options control how `useEffect` works:

- If `dependencies` is an array that includes one or more reactive values, the effect will run whenever they change.

- If `dependencies` is an empty array, `useEffect` runs only once when the component first renders.

- If you omit `dependencies`, the effect runs every time the component renders or updates.

## How to Create Custom Hooks

- **Custom Hooks**: A custom hook allows you to extract reusable logic from components, such as data fetching, state management, toggling, and side effects like tracking online status. In React, all built-in hooks start with the word `use`, so your custom hook should follow the same convention.

Here is an example of creating a `useDebounce` hook:

```jsx
function useDebounce(value, delay) {
  const [debouncedValue, setDebouncedValue] = useState(value);

  useEffect(() => {
    const handler = setTimeout(() => {
      setDebouncedValue(value);
    }, delay);

    return () => {
      clearTimeout(handler);
    };
  }, [value, delay]);

  return debouncedValue;
}

export { useDebounce };
```

# --assignment--

Review the React state and hooks topics and concepts.
