guide/english/javascript/index.md, before:

---
title: JavaScript
---

## JavaScript
JavaScript is the most widely used scripting language on Earth. And it has the largest library ecosystem of any programming language.

JavaScript is the core language of the web, and the only programming language that can run in all major web browsers.

Notably, JavaScript has no relation to Java. [JavaScript: The World's Most Misunderstood Programming Language](http://www.crockford.com/javascript/javascript.html)

The official name of JavaScript is ECMAScript defined under Standard [ECMA-262](https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-262.htm)

If you want to learn more about the JavaScript language, and why it's so widely used, read Quincy Larson's article - [Which programming language should I learn first?](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/what-programming-language-should-i-learn-first-%CA%87d%C4%B1%C9%B9%C9%94s%C9%90%CA%8C%C9%90%C9%BE-%C9%B9%C7%9D%CA%8Dsu%C9%90-19a33b0a467d) -
or watch this [inspiring video from Preethi Kasireddy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqiEhZYmvKk).

## Standalone JavaScript engines
Mozilla's SpiderMonkey, the first JavaScript engine ever written, currently used in Mozilla Firefox.
V8, Google's JavaScript engine, used in Google Chrome.

Google Apps Script, a cloud-based/server-side interpreter that provides programmatic "macro-like" control of Google Apps services and documents.

Node.js, built on top of V8, a platform which enables server-side applications to be written in JavaScript.

Windows includes JScript, a JavaScript variant in Windows Script Host.

Chakra, a fork of Jscript, is developed by Microsoft and used in their Edge browser.

Mozilla also offers Rhino, an implementation of JavaScript built in Java, typically embedded into Java applications to provide scripting to end users.

WebKit (except for the Chromium project) implements the JavaScriptCore engine.

## JavaScript Frameworks
Most frequently used JavaScript Frameworks are React JS, Angular JS, Create JS, jQuery, nodeJS etc. 
For details follow this [link](https://javascriptreport.com/the-ultimate-guide-to-javascript-frameworks/).

Commit message:

Added description to JavaScript Frameworks
I added an extended description to the JavaScript Frameworks subheading to explain what they are.

guide/english/javascript/index.md, after:

---
title: JavaScript
---

## JavaScript
JavaScript is the most widely used scripting language on Earth. And it has the largest library ecosystem of any programming language.

JavaScript is the core language of the web, and the only programming language that can run in all major web browsers.

Notably, JavaScript has no relation to Java. [JavaScript: The World's Most Misunderstood Programming Language](http://www.crockford.com/javascript/javascript.html)

The official name of JavaScript is ECMAScript defined under Standard [ECMA-262](https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-262.htm)

If you want to learn more about the JavaScript language, and why it's so widely used, read Quincy Larson's article - [Which programming language should I learn first?](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/what-programming-language-should-i-learn-first-%CA%87d%C4%B1%C9%B9%C9%94s%C9%90%CA%8C%C9%90%C9%BE-%C9%B9%C7%9D%CA%8Dsu%C9%90-19a33b0a467d) -
or watch this [inspiring video from Preethi Kasireddy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqiEhZYmvKk).

## Standalone JavaScript engines
Mozilla's SpiderMonkey, the first JavaScript engine ever written, currently used in Mozilla Firefox.
V8, Google's JavaScript engine, used in Google Chrome.

Google Apps Script, a cloud-based/server-side interpreter that provides programmatic "macro-like" control of Google Apps services and documents.

Node.js, built on top of V8, a platform which enables server-side applications to be written in JavaScript.

Windows includes JScript, a JavaScript variant in Windows Script Host.

Chakra, a fork of Jscript, is developed by Microsoft and used in their Edge browser.

Mozilla also offers Rhino, an implementation of JavaScript built in Java, typically embedded into Java applications to provide scripting to end users.

WebKit (except for the Chromium project) implements the JavaScriptCore engine.

## JavaScript Frameworks
JavaScript frameworks are application frameworks that can be applied to existing Javascript code. They are often used for front-end development and web applications.The most frequently used JavaScript Frameworks are React JS, Angular JS, Create JS, jQuery, nodeJS etc. 

For more details follow this [link](https://javascriptreport.com/the-ultimate-guide-to-javascript-frameworks/).
