---
id: 67e3c811d05156e8b3a59102
title: Task 10
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-10
---

<!-- (Audio) Mark: I think it means a code structure that can have multiple shapes or forms. Is that right? -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and complete the sentence below.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`I think it means a BLANK that can have BLANK BLANK or BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`code structure`

### --feedback--

This two-word phrase refers to the arrangement or organization of code that defines its behavior or functionality.

---

`multiple`

### --feedback--

This word refers to more than one, often used to show variety or many possibilities.

---

`shapes`

### --feedback--

This word in the plural form refers to the different appearances that something can take.

---

`forms`

### --feedback--

This word in the plural form means different ways or structures in which something can exist or behave.

# --explanation--

# --explanation--

`Code structure` refers to the way code is organized and structured to define how a program works. It helps programmers to manage the code more effectively and makes it easier to understand and modify. For example:

`In Python, the code structure includes functions and classes that help organize the program.` - This sentence shows how Python organizes code into functions and classes, which are basic `code structures`.

`Multiple shapes or forms` refer to the idea that something can exist in different variations, types, or appearances, depending on the context. For example:  

`A button in a web app can have multiple shapes or forms, such as a round button, a square button, or a rectangular button.` - This means the button can appear in various forms based on design choices.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company2-center.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Mark",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 0,
          "z": 1.4
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_16-1.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 12.1,
      "finishTimestamp": 16.6
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Mark",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Mark",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 5.5,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "I think it means a code structure that can have multiple shapes or forms. Is that right?",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Mark",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 6
    }
  ]
}
```
