guide/english/computer-science/index.md, before:

---
title: Computer Science
---
# Computer Science

Computer Science is the study of computers and the concepts that make computers possible. It is a scientific approach to computation and its applications. This includes the study of the structure, expression, and algorithms that underlie the manipulation of data.

Much of computer science was pioneered in the latter half of the 20th century.

Today, if you attend an undergraduate computer science course, you will learn about both hardware and software. You'll learn how computers work at a low level of abstraction (machine language) and at a high level of abstraction (modern scripting langauges like JavaScript).

# Computer Science Fields
Computer science is categorized into several fields. The following are among the current established and well-studied fields. Most of the fields are further categorized into sub0fields.
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_computation">Theory of Computing</a>
  - Complexity Theory
  - Formal Methods
  - Distributed Algorithms
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_security">Security</a>
  - Cryptography<br>
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence">Artificial Intelligence</a>
  - Data Mining
  - Machine Learning
  - Computer Vision
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_engineering">Software Engineering</a>
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_science">Data Sciences</a>
  - Big Data
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human%E2%80%93computer_interaction">Human Computer Interaction</a>
  - Brain Computer Interface
- Systems
  - Distributed Systems
  - Operating Systems
  - Database Systems

##More Information
* [Visualization of Data Structures](http://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/JavascriptVisual/Algorithms.html)
* [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science) : A deep dive into algorithms, cryptography, introductory computing, and much more.
* [CS50](https://cs50.harvard.edu) : A free, introduction to computer science course, taught by David J. Malan and staff at Harvard & Yale Universities.
* [Visualization of Data Structures](http://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/JavascriptVisual/Algorithms.html)

Commit message:

added some text
Added some text talking about how CS undergrad courses may not have hardcore coding classes.

guide/english/computer-science/index.md, after:

---
title: Computer Science
---
# Computer Science

Computer Science is the study of computers and the concepts that make computers possible. It is a scientific approach to computation and its applications. This includes the study of the structure, expression, and algorithms that underlie the manipulation of data.

Much of computer science was pioneered in the latter half of the 20th century.

Today, if you attend an undergraduate computer science course, you will learn about both hardware and software. You'll learn how computers work at a low level of abstraction (machine language) and at a high level of abstraction (modern scripting langauges like JavaScript). Contrary to popular belief, an undergradate computer science program might revolve more around hardware and software, than actual coding. Most CS undergrads are encouraged to pick up coding by themselves in their spare time.

# Computer Science Fields
Computer science is categorized into several fields. The following are among the current established and well-studied fields. Most of the fields are further categorized into sub0fields.
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_computation">Theory of Computing</a>
  - Complexity Theory
  - Formal Methods
  - Distributed Algorithms
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_security">Security</a>
  - Cryptography<br>
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence">Artificial Intelligence</a>
  - Data Mining
  - Machine Learning
  - Computer Vision
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_engineering">Software Engineering</a>
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_science">Data Sciences</a>
  - Big Data
- <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human%E2%80%93computer_interaction">Human Computer Interaction</a>
  - Brain Computer Interface
- Systems
  - Distributed Systems
  - Operating Systems
  - Database Systems

##More Information
* [Visualization of Data Structures](http://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/JavascriptVisual/Algorithms.html)
* [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science) : A deep dive into algorithms, cryptography, introductory computing, and much more.
* [CS50](https://cs50.harvard.edu) : A free, introduction to computer science course, taught by David J. Malan and staff at Harvard & Yale Universities.
* [Visualization of Data Structures](http://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/JavascriptVisual/Algorithms.html)
