guide/english/algorithms/avl-trees/index.md, before:

---
title: AVL Trees
---
## AVL Trees


An AVL tree is a subtype of binary search tree.

A BST is a data structure composed of nodes. It has the following guarantees:

1. Each tree has a root node (at the top).
2. The root node has zero or more child nodes.
3. Each child node has zero or more child nodes, and so on.
4. Each node has up to two children.
5. For each node, its left descendents are less than the current node, which is less than the right descendents.

AVL trees have an additional guarantee:
6. The difference between the depth of right and left subtrees cannot be more than one. In order to maintain this guarantee, an implementation of an AVL will include an algorithm to rebalance the tree when adding an additional element would upset this guarantee.

AVL trees have a worst case lookup, insert and delete time of O(log n).

### Right Rotation

![AVL Tree Right Rotation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HebleV/valet_parking/master/images/avl_right_rotation.jpg)

### Left Rotation

![AVL Tree Left Rotation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HebleV/valet_parking/master/images/avl_left_rotation.jpg)

### AVL Insertion Process

You will do an insertion similar to a normal Binary Search Tree insertion. After inserting, you fix the AVL property using left or right rotations.

  - If there is an imbalance in left child of right subtree, then you perform a left-right rotation.  
  - If there is an imbalance in left child of left subtree, then you perform a right rotation.  
  - If there is an imbalance in right child of right subtree, then you perform a left rotation.  
  - If there is an imbalance in right child of left subtree, then you perform a right-left rotation.  
 

#### More Information:
[YouTube - AVL Tree](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7m94k2Qhg68)

An AVL tree is a self-balancing binary search tree.
An AVL tree is a binary search tree which has the following properties:
->The sub-trees of every node differ in height by at most one.
->Every sub-tree is an AVL tree.

AVL tree checks the height of the left and the right sub-trees and assures that the difference is not more than 1. This difference is called the Balance Factor.
The height of an AVL tree is always O(Logn) where n is the number of nodes in the tree.

AVL Tree Rotations:-

In AVL tree, after performing every operation like insertion and deletion we need to check the balance factor of every node in the tree. If every node satisfies the balance factor condition then we conclude the operation otherwise we must make it balanced. We use rotation operations to make the tree balanced whenever the tree is becoming imbalanced due to any operation.

Rotation operations are used to make a tree balanced.There are four rotations and they are classified into two types:
->Single Left Rotation (LL Rotation)
In LL Rotation every node moves one position to left from the current position.
->Single Right Rotation (RR Rotation)
In RR Rotation every node moves one position to right from the current position. 
->Left Right Rotation (LR Rotation)
The LR Rotation is combination of single left rotation followed by single right rotation. In LR Rotation, first every node moves one position to left then one position to right from the current position.
->Right Left Rotation (RL Rotation)
The RL Rotation is combination of single right rotation followed by single left rotation. In RL Rotation, first every node moves one position to right then one position to left from the current position.

Commit message:

Added about height of AVL and AVL vs Red Black.
Added about:
1. the advantage of AVL Tree over unbalanced BST
2. height of AVL Tree and its proof
3. comparison of AVL Tree with Red Black Tree

guide/english/algorithms/avl-trees/index.md, after:

---
title: AVL Trees
---
## AVL Trees


An AVL tree is a subtype of binary search tree.

A BST is a data structure composed of nodes. It has the following guarantees:

1. Each tree has a root node (at the top).
2. The root node has zero or more child nodes.
3. Each child node has zero or more child nodes, and so on.
4. Each node has up to two children.
5. For each node, its left descendents are less than the current node, which is less than the right descendents.

AVL trees have an additional guarantee:
6. The difference between the depth of right and left subtrees cannot be more than one. In order to maintain this guarantee, an implementation of an AVL will include an algorithm to rebalance the tree when adding an additional element would upset this guarantee.

AVL trees have a worst case lookup, insert and delete time of O(log n).

### Right Rotation

![AVL Tree Right Rotation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HebleV/valet_parking/master/images/avl_right_rotation.jpg)

### Left Rotation

![AVL Tree Left Rotation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HebleV/valet_parking/master/images/avl_left_rotation.jpg)

### AVL Insertion Process

You will do an insertion similar to a normal Binary Search Tree insertion. After inserting, you fix the AVL property using left or right rotations.

  - If there is an imbalance in left child of right subtree, then you perform a left-right rotation.  
  - If there is an imbalance in left child of left subtree, then you perform a right rotation.  
  - If there is an imbalance in right child of right subtree, then you perform a left rotation.  
  - If there is an imbalance in right child of left subtree, then you perform a right-left rotation.  
 

#### More Information:
[YouTube - AVL Tree](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7m94k2Qhg68)

An AVL tree is a self-balancing binary search tree.
An AVL tree is a binary search tree which has the following properties:
->The sub-trees of every node differ in height by at most one.
->Every sub-tree is an AVL tree.

AVL tree checks the height of the left and the right sub-trees and assures that the difference is not more than 1. This difference is called the Balance Factor.

##### Why AVL Trees?

Most of the BST(Binary Search Tree) operations (e.g., search, max, min, insert, delete.. etc) take O(h) time where h is the height of the BST. The cost of these operations may become O(n) for a skewed Binary tree. If we make sure that height of the tree remains O(Logn) after every insertion and deletion, then we can guarantee an upper bound of O(Logn) for all these operations.
The height of an AVL tree is always O(Logn) where n is the number of nodes in the tree (See [this](https://people.csail.mit.edu/alinush/6.006-spring-2014/avl-height-proof.pdf) for proof).

##### AVL Tree Rotations:

In AVL tree, after performing every operation like insertion and deletion we need to check the balance factor of every node in the tree. If every node satisfies the balance factor condition then we conclude the operation otherwise we must make it balanced. We use rotation operations to make the tree balanced whenever the tree is becoming imbalanced due to any operation.

Rotation operations are used to make a tree balanced.There are four rotations and they are classified into two types:
->Single Left Rotation (LL Rotation)
In LL Rotation every node moves one position to left from the current position.
->Single Right Rotation (RR Rotation)
In RR Rotation every node moves one position to right from the current position. 
->Left Right Rotation (LR Rotation)
The LR Rotation is combination of single left rotation followed by single right rotation. In LR Rotation, first every node moves one position to left then one position to right from the current position.
->Right Left Rotation (RL Rotation)
The RL Rotation is combination of single right rotation followed by single left rotation. In RL Rotation, first every node moves one position to right then one position to left from the current position.

##### Comparison of AVL Tree with Red Black Tree:

The AVL tree and Red Black Tree are self-balancing search trees. These are useful to get all basic operations done in O(log n) time, where n is the number of nodes in the tree. The AVL trees are more balanced compared to Red-Black Trees, but they may cause more rotations during insertion and deletion. So if your application involves many frequent insertions and deletions, then Red Black trees should be preferred. And if the insertions and deletions are less frequent and search is the more frequent operation, then AVL tree should be preferred over [Red Black Tree](https://guide.freecodecamp.org/algorithms/red-black-trees).
