---
id: 68e45a2b4ab9b2f48b1cc6df
title: Step 1
challengeType: 0
dashedName: step-1
# demoType can either be 'onClick' or 'onLoad'. If the project or lab doesn't have a preview, delete the property
demoType: onClick
---

# --description--

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories**

1. Your page should have an `h1` element with the text `Pricing Plans`.
2. Your page should have three `div` elements with the class `pricing-card` to represent the pricing plans.
   - One of your `div` elements should have the class `pro-plan` in addition to the `pricing-card` class.
   - One of your `div` elements should have the class `basic-plan` in addition to the `pricing-card` class.
   - One of your `div` elements should have the class `premium-plan` in addition to the `pricing-card` class.
3. Each of your `.pricing-card` elements should use Flexbox to stack its content in a column and justify the space between the children using `space-between`. Each element should also set the `flex` property to `0 0 200px` to give it a consistent width and prevent it from growing or shrinking in the layout.
4. The `basic-plan` element should appear first in the layout. You should use the `order` property for this.
5. The `pro-plan` element should appear second in the layout. You should use the `order` property and set its `flex-grow` property to `2` so it takes up more space than the other plans.
6. The `premium-plan` element should come last in the layout. You should use the `order` property for this.

# --hints--

Test 1

```js

```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```html
--fcc-editable-region--

--fcc-editable-region--
```
