---
id: 675ff42fb8c8a6c4f21cd3bb
title: Task 104
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-104
---

<!-- (Audio) Brian: Everyone should always use a VPN, especially when accessing sensitive information. -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and complete the sentence below.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Everyone should always use a BLANK, especially when BLANK BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`VPN`

### --feedback--

This stands for `Virtual Private Network`, which secures your internet connection by encrypting your data. All three letters are capitalized.

---

`accessing`

### --feedback--

This word refers to the act of opening or using something, such as files, systems, or websites. It ends in `-ing`.

---

`sensitive information`

### --feedback--

This phrase of two words refers to important or private data that needs to be protected, like passwords or financial details.

# --explanation--

`VPN` stands for `Virtual Private Network`. It makes your internet connection safer by hiding your data and protecting you from hackers. For example:

`Using a VPN ensures that your connection is secure, even on public Wi-Fi.` - This means that a VPN helps keep your online activities private and safe when you use public Wi-Fi, which is not very secure.

`Accessing` means opening or using something, like files, websites, or systems. For example:

`Employees should be cautious when accessing company files on personal devices.` - This means employees need to be careful when opening company files on their own devices, so they don't risk losing or exposing important information.

`Sensitive information` means private or important data that can cause problems if it is shared with the wrong people. For example:

`Passwords and financial records are examples of sensitive information that must be protected.` - This means that things like passwords and money details need to be kept safe, because if they are stolen, someone could use them to harm you or take your money.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "interview-room1.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Brian",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 15,
          "z": 1.2
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_6-3.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 48.56,
      "finishTimestamp": 53.6
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Brian",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Brian",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 6.04,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "Everyone should always use a VPN, especially when accessing sensitive information.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Brian",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 6.54
    }
  ]
}
```
