---
id: 6760f7ca38c9167853ebf917
title: Task 108
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-108
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`often`, `usually`, `Typically`,  `we'll`, `especially`, and `every month`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Anna: Hi Brian, I've heard about these Man-in-the-Middle attacks. When do they BLANK happen?`

`Brian: BLANK, they occur when you're using public Wi-Fi or unsecured networks. It's crucial to be careful, especially during peak travel times, like holidays or weekends.`

`Anna: I see. How BLANK should we remind employees to use secure connections?`

`Brian: We send out reminders BLANK, but we're planning to increase that to every two weeks to keep everyone vigilant. By the end of this week, BLANK have new job aids with updated security tips.`

`Anna: That sounds like a good approach. When is our next security review meeting?`

`Brian: It's scheduled for tomorrow afternoon. We'll discuss our current security protocols and the steps we're taking to prevent Man-in-the-Middle attacks.`

`Anna: Got it. We have our summit coming next week, and many team members are coming from other countries. What should they do to protect themselves while traveling for work?`

`Brian: Everyone should always use a VPN, BLANK when accessing sensitive information. They should also avoid using public Wi-Fi for important tasks, like banking or accessing corporate emails.`

`Anna: Thanks for the advice. Let's ensure everyone gets these updates before they travel next week.`


## --blanks--

`usually`

### --feedback--

It means most of the time or in normal situations.

---

`Typically`

### --feedback--

It means generally or commonly. It is used to describe regular behavior or situations.

---

`often`

### --feedback--

It means frequently or many times.

---

`every month`

### --feedback--

It describes something happens once a month.

---

`we'll`

### --feedback--

It is a contraction of `we will`. It is used to talk about a future action.

---

`especially`

### --feedback--

It is used to emphasize something important in a specific situation.
