---
id: 663316fdcce39d9144ae40cd
title: Tarefa 32
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-32
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Tom: Got it. So, that means I should read the function names and comments to know what those functions do.
-->

# --description--

The word `what` can be used to introduce a clause. It typically introduces noun clauses, providing more information about a noun or acting as a part of a statement.

A noun clause is a clause that functions as a noun within a larger sentence. It typically includes a subject and a verb, and can act as the subject, object, or complement in a sentence.

For example, in the sentence `She doesn't know what to buy`, `what to buy` is a clause where `what` stands for the thing that she needs to decide on purchasing.

Another example is `Tell me what you heard.` `What you heard` is the clause, with `what` explaining the specific things that were heard, acting as the object of the verb `heard`.

`Those` as a demonstrative pronoun refers to specific items previously mentioned or understood from the context.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Got it. So, that means I should read the function names and comments to know _ _ functions _.`

## --blanks--

`what`

### --feedback--

This word introduces a clause, leading to information that explains the activities or responsibilities of these functions.

---

`those`

### --feedback--

This pronoun refers back to a specific group of functions previously discussed or understood from the context.

---

`do`

### --feedback--

This verb completes the indirect statement, indicating the actions performed by the functions.
