---
id: 6579e1cd6c8b6248fa62ed48
title: Task 59
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-59
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following phrases or words in the correct spot:

`to suggest`, `advise that`, `recommend`, `go ahead`, `to lead`, and `get started`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Bob: Good morning, team. Let's BLANK with our meeting. Sophie, what's on your agenda today?` 

`Sophie: Good morning, everyone. I've had some ideas about improving our coding practices. I would like BLANK we create coding guidelines to ensure consistency across our projects. I BLANK that we start by defining coding standards for different programming languages we use.` 

`Bob: I agree with you. It might help to have a clear style guide for each language. Also, I would BLANK we regularly review and update these guidelines as our projects evolve.`  

`Sophie: Yeah, consistency is essential. I’ll BLANK and start with defining those coding standards.`
  
`Bob: Great. I’m happy for you BLANK that effort if that’s ok with you.`

## --blanks--

`get started`

### --feedback--

This means to begin doing something.

---

`to suggest`

### --feedback--

This phrase is used to share a new idea or proposal.

---

`recommend`

### --feedback--

This verb is used when giving a strong idea or advice about what to do.

---

`advise that`

### --feedback--

This phrase is used when giving a formal or helpful suggestion.

---

`go ahead`

### --feedback--

This phrase means to begin or continue with a plan.

---

`to lead`

### --feedback--

This phrase means to be in charge of a task or activity.
