guide/english/miscellaneous/tips-for-your-coding/index.md, before:

---
title: Tips for Your Coding
---
This list was created by compiling common issue and questions when working on the algorithm challenges, they should be helpful in general.

1.  If you don't know where to start, write some pseudocode. Plan out the logic you're trying to implement in your native language before you try to put it into code.

2.  Comment your code! Can't stress that one enough, if you get lost or take a break then come back you need to know what your code is trying to do. It will also reinforce what the code means to you, and help other people understand what your code does if you get stuck and ask for help. If you've got a any other tips for campers I'd love to see them!

3.  Use the chrome javascript debugger console in conjunction with something like the netbeans IDE or sublime text to write your code. Both are free to download. The freeCodeCamp code editor is great but you can get a lot more feedback on your code's behaviour by using chrome's JS debugger and a bunch of **console.log(myVariableGoesHere);**

References

*   <a href='https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/console' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Chrome Console</a>
*   <a href='http://www.sublimetext.com/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Sublime Text</a>
*   <a href='https://netbeans.org/downloads/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Netbeans</a>

    1.  Posting your code in gitter is as simple as adding a line consisting of only 3 backtics **`** then your code in a new line and another line with 3 more backtics.`

    2.  Ask for help in gitter! I can personally relate to staring at a problem for hours, then seeing the solution as soon as I try to explain it to someone, or having someone say something like "typo on line 6" as soon as they see it.

Commit message:

Additional text regarding peers
Reminder to take advantage of peers to get assistance when needed

guide/english/miscellaneous/tips-for-your-coding/index.md, after:

---
title: Tips for Your Coding
---
This list was created by compiling common issue and questions when working on the algorithm challenges, they should be helpful in general.

1.  If you don't know where to start, write some pseudocode. Plan out the logic you're trying to implement in your native language before you try to put it into code.

2.  Comment your code! Can't stress that one enough, if you get lost or take a break then come back you need to know what your code is trying to do. It will also reinforce what the code means to you, and help other people understand what your code does if you get stuck and ask for help. If you've got a any other tips for campers I'd love to see them!

3.  Use the chrome javascript debugger console in conjunction with something like the netbeans IDE or sublime text to write your code. Both are free to download. The freeCodeCamp code editor is great but you can get a lot more feedback on your code's behaviour by using chrome's JS debugger and a bunch of **console.log(myVariableGoesHere);**

References

*   <a href='https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/console' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Chrome Console</a>
*   <a href='http://www.sublimetext.com/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Sublime Text</a>
*   <a href='https://netbeans.org/downloads/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Netbeans</a>

    1.  Posting your code in gitter is as simple as adding a line consisting of only 3 backtics **`** then your code in a new line and another line with 3 more backtics.`

    2.  Ask for help in gitter! I can personally relate to staring at a problem for hours, then seeing the solution as soon as I try to explain it to someone, or having someone say something like "typo on line 6" as soon as they see it. Take advantage of message boards and social media groups as well as in person peers to attempt to have a fresh set of eyes glance over your work.
