---
id: 67c616175331825f2a16c71d
title: Task 54
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-54
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Bob, Maria sends the team an email with the updates and asks them to have their meeting on the following day two hours earlier, so they could talk about the client's request.

`Subject: Updated Meeting Time – Project Timeline Discussion`

`Hi everyone,`

`I wanted to update you on crucial points in a discussion I had with Bob about our project timeline. The client has requested if we can finish it one week in advance, and we've been thinking of ways to speed things up while trying to prevent burnout.`

`To ensure we're all aligned, I'd like to adjust our meeting time to tomorrow morning at 8, two hours earlier than our previously scheduled time. We'll discuss the revised schedule I'll come up with today, task prioritization, ways to avoid putting in additional hours, and any support you might need to make things run more smoothly.`

`We understand that rearranging tasks doesn't always solve the problem, and we want to be careful not to overwork the team. I'd love to hear your thoughts on the best way to approach this challenge.`

`Please confirm if the new time works for you. Thanks for your flexibility and commitment.`

`Best,`

`Maria`

According to the email, what are Bob and Maria convinced of and what do they want to avoid?  

## --answers--

That rearranging tasks will completely solve the issue, and they want to avoid changing the deadline.  

### --feedback--

Maria actually states they are not fully convinced this will work.  

---

That rearranging tasks doesn't always solve the issue, and they want to avoid overworking the team.

---

That the only way to fix the issue is to work more hours, and they want to avoid asking the client for help.

### --feedback--

Maria does not mention that working more hours is the only solution.  

---

That delaying the project is necessary, and they want to avoid discussing the problem with the team.

### --feedback--

Maria is trying to meet the deadline, not delay the project.

## --video-solution--

2  

# --explanation--

To find the answer, look at the **third paragraph** of the email, where Maria states that there is something she and Bob understand, meaning they are not convinced of that. Also, the email mentions what they are trying not to do.
