---
id: 67c6176130e73c6a6e230cc8
title: Task 55
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-55
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Bob, Maria sends the team an email with the updates and asks them to have their meeting on the following day two hours earlier, so they could talk about the client's request.

`Subject: Updated Meeting Time – Project Timeline Discussion`

`Hi everyone,`

`I wanted to update you on crucial points in a discussion I had with Bob about our project timeline. The client has requested if we can finish it one week in advance, and we've been thinking of ways to speed things up while trying to prevent burnout.`

`To ensure we're all aligned, I'd like to adjust our meeting time to tomorrow morning at 8, two hours earlier than our previously scheduled time. We'll discuss the revised schedule I'll come up with today, task prioritization, ways to avoid putting in additional hours, and any support you might need to make things run more smoothly.`

`We understand that rearranging tasks doesn't always solve the problem, and we want to be careful not to overwork the team. I'd love to hear your thoughts on the best way to approach this challenge.`

`Please confirm if the new time works for you. Thanks for your flexibility and commitment.`

`Best,`

`Maria`

Does Maria want to decide everything by herself?

## --answers--

Yes, she has already made all the decisions.

### --feedback--

Maria is planning the schedule, but she's willing to discuss it.

---

Yes, because she doesn't want to ask for the team's opinions.

### --feedback--

Maria clearly states she'd love to do something different.

---

No, she has already assigned tasks to each team member.

### --feedback--

Maria has not assigned any tasks yet.

---

No, she wants to hear the team's thoughts on the best approach.  

## --video-solution--

4  

# --explanation--

To find the answer, look at the **third paragraph** of the email, where Maria states what she wants to hear from the team in the meeting tomorrow.
