---
id: 67c999393d5a00cbf7e5abc7
title: Task 100
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-100
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to James, Maria has come up with a list of important points so that she could discuss them with Bob in an upcoming meeting. This is the list:

`Meeting Notes: Talk with James`

`Key Points:`

- `Project Deadline: The team is already working extra hours, and the new deadline is adding more stress.`

- `Burnout Risk: More pressure could lead to burnout. We should rethink task priorities to ease the workload.`

- `Resource Shortage: The team is missing key roles, making it harder to manage tasks efficiently.`

- `Communication Issues: Late updates are causing problems. More regular check-ins could help.`

- `Team Morale: Constant pressure is affecting motivation. We need ways to support the team.`

`Suggested Actions:`

- `Ask Bob again about getting extra support.`

- `Adjust task priorities to reduce stress.`

- `Set up more frequent check-ins for better communication.`

- `Find ways to keep morale up despite the tight deadline.`

According to Maria's notes, why is the team concerned about the new project deadline?

## --answers--  

They feel unmotivated and don't want to work.

### --feedback--  

The text mentions that motivation is affected, but this is not the main concern.

---  

They are already working extra hours, and the new deadline increases stress.  

---  

They don't like the project and want to stop working on it.

### --feedback--  

The text does not mention that the team dislikes the project.

---  

They don't know what tasks to work on.  

### --feedback--  

The team knows their tasks, even though sometimes, they are informed of changes a little late.

## --video-solution--  

2  

# --explanation--  

The correct answer highlights the team's concern, which has more to do with the consequence of having an earlier deadline. Check the `Key Points` section, especifically the point about the `Project Deadline`, to find the answer.
