---
id: 67c9a24781b6abea69970ad8
title: Task 105
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-105
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to James, Maria has come up with a list of important points so that she could discuss them with Bob in an upcoming meeting. This is the list:

`Meeting Notes: Talk with James`

`Key Points:`

- `Project Deadline: The team is already working extra hours, and the new deadline is adding more stress.`

- `Burnout Risk: More pressure could lead to burnout. We should rethink task priorities to ease the workload.`

- `Resource Shortage: The team is missing key roles, making it harder to manage tasks efficiently.`

- `Communication Issues: Late updates are causing problems. More regular check-ins could help.`

- `Team Morale: Constant pressure is affecting motivation. We need ways to support the team.`

`Suggested Actions:`

- `Ask Bob again about getting extra support.`

- `Adjust task priorities to reduce stress.`

- `Set up more frequent check-ins for better communication.`

- `Find ways to keep morale up despite the tight deadline.`

What was discussed about team's morale, and was a way found to improve it?

## --answers--  

The team's morale is suffering due to constant pressure. They still have to find ways to support the team.

---  

The team's morale is high, and no changes are needed.  

### --feedback--  

The text clearly states that the team is under pressure and that it is affecting the team's morale.

---  

Maria decided that team's morale is not a priority right now.

### --feedback--  

Maria acknowledged that morale is an issue and is trying to find solutions.

---  

The team is feeling stressed, and they've already come up with a solution.

### --feedback--  

Not quite. While stress was mentioned, they are yet to find ways to support the team in these terms.

## --video-solution--  

1  

# --explanation--  

The correct answer to this question can be found both in the `Key Points` section and in the `Suggested Actions` section, especifically in the parts that mention `morale`, which could be defined as the enthusiasm and the confidence a person or group has at a particular time. You'll find your answer by looking for the word `morale` in the text.
