---
id: 67cb36bd46e40a80d21c0f8c
title: Task 149
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-149
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Maria, Bob decides to send Anna, head of the HR department, an email to set up a meeting. This is the message he sent:

`Subject: Urgent: Team Support and Deadline Challenges`

`Hi Anna,`

`I hope you're doing well. I wanted to reach out about some challenges our team is facing with the new deadline.`

`Right now, the team is feeling overwhelmed. They are already working extra hours, and adding more tasks could lead to burnout. One key issue is that we are short on important roles, making it difficult to meet the deadline. More support would help balance the workload and reduce stress.`

`Another concern is communication. The team often hears about changes too late, which causes confusion. We are setting up regular check-ins to improve this, but having enough people in place would make a big difference.`

`To help the team, we may need to adjust the deadline slightly. However, even with more time, we still need additional resources. I'd like to discuss possible solutions with you. Could we set up a meeting to go over this?`

`Let me know when you're available. Looking forward to your thoughts.`

`Best,`

`Bob`

According to the email, what made Bob reach out to Anna?

## --answers--

He wanted to ask for a deadline extension.

### --feedback--

That was not the main reason Bob contacted Anna.

---

The development team is facing some problems at the moment.

---

Maria told him to schedule a meeting with HR.

### --feedback--

Maria suggested this, but Bob made the decision based on something else.

---

He needed approval for extra working hours.

### --feedback--

Bob was concerned actually about extra working hours the team is already putting in.
  
## --video-solution--

2

# --explanation--

Right after Bob greets Anna, there is a line where you find the expression `reach out`, which means contacting someone. Check this line for the answer to this question.
