---
id: 67cb403befa104a1b503d5ff
title: Task 153
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-153
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Maria, Bob decides to send Anna, head of the HR department, an email to set up a meeting. This is the message he sent:

`Subject: Urgent: Team Support and Deadline Challenges`

`Hi Anna,`

`I hope you're doing well. I wanted to reach out about some challenges our team is facing with the new deadline.`

`Right now, the team is feeling overwhelmed. They are already working extra hours, and adding more tasks could lead to burnout. One key issue is that we are short on important roles, making it difficult to meet the deadline. More support would help balance the workload and reduce stress.`

`Another concern is communication. The team often hears about changes too late, which causes confusion. We are setting up regular check-ins to improve this, but having enough people in place would make a big difference.`

`To help the team, we may need to adjust the deadline slightly. However, even with more time, we still need additional resources. I'd like to discuss possible solutions with you. Could we set up a meeting to go over this?`

`Let me know when you're available. Looking forward to your thoughts.`

`Best,`

`Bob`

There is another solution Bob mentions they may try to implement to help the team. What is it?

## --answers--

Giving the team extra training.

### --feedback--

Bob does not mention training as a solution.

---

Increasing team meetings even more.

### --feedback--

Bob already suggested regular check-ins but this is not the additional solution he mentions.

---

Reducing the number of tasks.

### --feedback--

Bob does not suggest removing tasks.

---

Adjusting the deadline slightly.

## --video-solution--

4

# --explanation--

Almost at the end of the email, Bob suggests something `to help the team`. Check this line and you will be able to answer this question.
