---
id: 66c07238b01053abaf812065
title: Build a Factorial Calculator
challengeType: 14
dashedName: build-a-factorial-calculator
---

# --description--

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

A factorial is the product of an integer and all the integers below it. For example, the factorial of `5` is `5 * 4 * 3 * 2 * 1 = 120`. In this lab, you will create a factorial calculator that takes a number from the user and calculates the factorial of that number.

1. You should declare a variable `num` and assign it the value of `5`.
   
2. Declare a variable `result` and assign it the value of `1`.
   
3. Using a loop, loop through all numbers from `1` to `num` (inclusive) and for each number, multiply the `result` variable by the current number and assign the result to the `result` variable. You can choose to use  either a `for` loop, `while` loop or `do...while` loop here.
   
4. You should store the factorial of `num` in the variable `resultMsg` in the format `Factorial of [num] is [result]`.

5. You should output the value of `resultMsg` to the console.
   
# --hints--

You should have a `num` variable.

```js
assert.isDefined(num);
```

You should assign `5` to the `num` variable

```js
assert.equal(num, 5);
```

You should have a `result` variable.

```js
assert.isDefined(result);
```

You should assign `1` to the `result` variable.

```js
assert.match(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), /result\s*=\s*1\s*;?\s?$/m);
```

The factorial of `5` should be `120`.

```js
assert.equal(result, 120);
```

You should assign the final result to the variable `resultMsg` in the format `Factorial of [num] is [result]`.

```js
assert.equal(resultMsg, 'Factorial of 5 is 120');
```

You should output the value of `resultMsg` to the console.

```js
assert.match(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), /console\.log\(resultMsg\);/);
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```js

```

# --solutions--

```js
const num = 5

let result = 1;

for (let i = 1; i <= num; i++) {
  result *= i;
}

const resultMsg = `Factorial of ${num} is: ${result}`;
console.log(resultMsg); 
```
