---
id: 678e2fb76f1044ad587f3dfc
title: Task 51
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-51
---

<!-- (audio) It has robust tools for code refactoring, which makes it easier for the team to maintain the codebase. -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and complete the sentence below.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`It has BLANK tools for code BLANK, which makes it easier for the team to maintain the BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`robust`

### --feedback--

This word means strong, powerful, and reliable. It is often used to describe something that is built to work well even under difficult conditions.

---

`refactoring`

### --feedback--

This word ended with `-ing` refers to the process of improving or restructuring existing code without changing its functionality. It's done to make code cleaner and easier to maintain.

---

`codebase`

### --feedback--

This refers to the entire collection of code that makes up a project or application. It includes all files, scripts, and resources related to the project.

# --explanation--

`Robust` means strong or reliable. In the context of software, it is used to describe tools or systems that perform well and can handle various challenges or demands. For example:

`The system is robust enough to handle large numbers of users without crashing.` - This means that the system can manage high demand without failure.

`Refactoring` is the process of restructuring existing code to improve its design and make it easier to manage, without changing how it works. For example:

`The developers spent the weekend refactoring the code to make it more readable and efficient.` - This means that the developers improved the structure of the code without altering its behavior.

`Codebase` refers to the entire collection of source code used to build a software project. It includes all the files, scripts, and resources involved in development. For example:

`The codebase of the new project is large, and it will take time to review all the files.` - This means that the collection of all the project's code is extensive and will require a lot of time to go through.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "company1-boardroom.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Maria",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 0,
          "z": 1.5
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_9-2.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 13.92,
      "finishTimestamp": 18.58
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 5.66,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "It has robust tools for code refactoring, which makes it easier for the team to maintain the code base.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Maria",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 6.16
    }
  ]
}
```
