guide/english/agile/scrummasters/index.md, before:

---
title: Scrummasters
---
## Scrum Master

The Scrum Master is responsible for ensuring Scrum is understood and enacted. Scrum Masters do this by ensuring that the Scrum Team adheres to Scrum theory, practices, and rules.

The Scrum Master is a servant-leader for the Scrum Team. The Scrum Master helps those outside the Scrum Team understand which of their interactions with the Scrum Team are helpful and which aren’t. The Scrum Master helps everyone change these interactions to maximize the value created by the Scrum Team.

### Scrum Master's Job

- Facilitating (not participating in) the daily standup
- Helping the team maintain their burndown chart
- Setting up retrospectives, sprint reviews or sprint planning sessions
- Shielding the team from interruptions during the sprint
- Removing obstacles that affect the team
- Walking the product owner through more technical user stories
- Encouraging collaboration between the Scrum team and product owner . 

Typically a Scrummaster will ask the following qustions: 
1. What did you do yesterday?
2. What are you going to do today?
3. Is there anything stopping your progress?

Scrum masters are part of an Agile team. They can be developers or other functional members (wearing multiple hats) or functioning individually as a sole role in a team. Their main objective is to enhance the development using the Scrum framework.

Often their role is to: guide the sprint planning, monitor daily standup, conduct retrospectives, ensure velocity is present, help Scoping of Sprints.

#### More Information:

- <a href="https://www.scrum.org/resources/what-is-a-scrum-master" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">What is a Scrum Master</a>
- <a href="https://www.scrum.org/resources/scrum-guide" rel="nofollow">Scrum Guide</a>

Commit message:

Enhance and Correct Scrum Master article
Adjusted spelling and scrum guide link, add additional Scrum Master duties, and correct some misconceptions.

guide/english/agile/scrummasters/index.md, after:

---
title: Scrummasters
---
## Scrum Master

The Scrum Master is responsible for ensuring Scrum is understood and enacted. Scrum Masters do this by ensuring that the Scrum Team adheres to Scrum theory, practices, and rules.

The Scrum Master is a servant-leader for the Scrum Team. The Scrum Master helps those outside the Scrum Team understand which of their interactions with the Scrum Team are helpful and which aren’t. The Scrum Master helps everyone change these interactions to maximize the value created by the Scrum Team.

### Scrum Master's Job

- Facilitating (not participating in) the daily standup
- Helping the team maintain their burndown chart
- Setting up retrospectives, sprint reviews or sprint planning sessions
- Shielding the team from interruptions during the sprint
- Making sure that obstacles that affect the team are removed, by doing it themselves or helping the team learn how to handle the obstacle
- Assisting the product owner with understanding the practice of writing, splitting, and prioritizing
- Encouraging collaboration between the Scrum team and product owner . 

Typically a Scrum Master will ask the following qustions: 
1. What did you do yesterday?
2. What are you going to do today?
3. Is there anything slowing downn or stopping your progress?

Scrum Masters are part of an Agile team. They can be developers or other functional members (wearing multiple hats) or functioning individually as a sole role in a team. Their main objective is to enhance the development using the Scrum framework.

Often their role is to: guide the sprint planning, monitor daily standup, conduct retrospectives, ensure velocity is present, help scoping of Sprints, helping the Product Owner and team to construct and split user stories. 

#### More Information:

- <a href="https://www.scrum.org/resources/what-is-a-scrum-master" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">What is a Scrum Master</a>
- <a href="https://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html" rel="nofollow">Scrum Guide</a>
