---
id: 65e8697e64f1883a30a759e5
title: Task 23
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-23
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`README file`, `run the code`, `conventions`, `assigned to`, `setup instructions`, and `dependencies`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Sophie: Hey, Brian, I've been BLANK work on this project, and I'm not sure where to start. Could you help me understand how we should document the code?`

`Brian: Of course. The first thing you should do is create a clear BLANK that's in the project's root directory. This file should contain information about the project, its purpose, and how to set it up.`

`Sophie: Got it. What else should I include in my README?`

`Brian: You should list the project BLANK so that anyone who wants to work on it knows what they need. Then specify how to BLANK and any other essential BLANK. Also, mention coding BLANK we follow in this project.`

`Sophie: Thanks, I'll make sure to follow your instructions.`

## --blanks--

`assigned to`

### --feedback--

Given a task or responsibility to do.

---

`README file`

### --feedback--

A file that gives important information about a project, like how to use it.

---

`dependencies`

### --feedback--

Other software or tools your project needs to work.

---

`run the code`

### --feedback--

To start a program and see what it does.

---

`setup instructions`

### --feedback--

Steps you follow to prepare a program or project so it works.

---

`conventions`

### --feedback--

Common rules or ways of doing things in coding or a project.
