---
id: 65e99a2986903b5c9f4bc720
title: Task 48
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-48
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`commit message`, `code changes`, `descriptive`, `clarification`, `reference`, `version control`, and `description`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Sophie: I see that we're using Git for BLANK. How do I document BLANK when I make updates or fixes?`

`Brian: Good question. When you make changes, you should use BLANK commit messages. Start your message with a verb in the imperative form, like fix, add, or update, followed by a brief BLANK of what you did.`

`Sophie: That sounds straightforward. Anything else I should keep in mind?`

`Brian: You should also BLANK issues in your BLANK if you're working on a task related to an issue. It helps in tracking progress and understanding the context of changes.`

`Sophie: Thanks for the BLANK. I'll make sure to follow these steps.`

## --blanks--

`version control`

### --feedback--

A system that helps track and manage changes to code over time.

---

`code changes`

### --feedback--

Updates or edits made to a program's code.

---

`descriptive`

### --feedback--

Gives clear and detailed information.

---

`description`

### --feedback--

Words that explain what something is or what it does.

---

`reference`

### --feedback--

Something you use to find information or check details.

---

`commit message`

### --feedback--

A short text explaining what changes were made to the code.

---

`clarification`

### --feedback--

Extra information to make something easier to understand.
