guide/english/bootstrap/buttons/index.md, before:

---
title: Buttons
---
## Buttons

The Bootstrap framework provides you with various styling options for buttons. These styles help you provide a visual representation to the user of what the button may do.

#### How To Use:
To use bootstrap buttons you follow the same steps that you would to create a button in HTML except you also apply the applicable CSS class to the button. A code example has been provided below.

**Code Example:**

`<button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">Primary</button>`

<button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">Primary</button>

You can also use bootstrap buttons with the `<a>` and `<input>` elements as shown in the examples below.

`<a class="btn btn-primary" href="#" role="button">This button is a link</a>`

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="#" role="button">This button is a link</a>

`<input class="btn btn-primary" type="submit" value="Submit">`

<input class="btn btn-primary" type="submit" value="Submit">

#### Bootstrap Button Class List:
This is a list of the CSS classes that bootstrap provides for buttons.

`.btn` This is bootstrap's basic button.

<button type="button" class="btn">Basic</button>

`.btn-default` This is bootstrap's default button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-default">Default</button>

`.btn-primary` This is bootstrap's primary button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">Primary</button>

`.btn-success` This is bootstrap's success button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-success">Success</button>

`.btn-info` This is bootstrap's info button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-info">Info</button>

`.btn-warning` This is bootstrap's warning button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-warning">Warning</button>

`.btn-danger` This is bootstrap's danger button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-danger">Danger</button>

`.btn-link` This is bootstrap's link button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-link">Link</button>

`.btn-light` This is bootstrap's light button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-light">Light</button>

#### Bootstrap Button Sizes:
This is a list of the CSS classes for different size of the buttons.

`.btn-lg` This is bootstrap's large button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-lg">Large</button>

`.btn-sm` This is bootstrap's small button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-sm">Small</button>

`.btn-xs` This is bootstrap's extra small button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-xs">Extra Small</button>

#### Bootstrap Outlined Buttons:
It is possible to also have outlined buttons rather than fully colored in ones. This is achieved by placing the mid fix `outline` between the button class you want. A sample usage would be as follows:

`<button type="button" class="btn btn-outline-primary">Primary</button>`

Outlined buttons are a part of Bootstrap since version 4, please be sure that you are using the right version if you are unable to get them work.

_Note: Do not include the dot in the HTML Class Attribute, referring to the classes with a dot is only used when adjusting the classes in CSS._

#### More Information: 
* <a href='https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/buttons/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Bootstrap Buttons documentation</a>
* <a href='http://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/button-group/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Bootstrap Button Group documentation</a>
* [Bootstrap Get Started](/articles/bootstrap/bootstrap-get-started)

Commit message:

Added Note about bootstrap with reactjs

guide/english/bootstrap/buttons/index.md, after:

---
title: Buttons
---
## Buttons

The Bootstrap framework provides you with various styling options for buttons. These styles help you provide a visual representation to the user of what the button may do.

#### How To Use:
To use bootstrap buttons you follow the same steps that you would to create a button in HTML except you also apply the applicable CSS class to the button. A code example has been provided below.

**Code Example:**

`<button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">Primary</button>`

<button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">Primary</button>

You can also use bootstrap buttons with the `<a>` and `<input>` elements as shown in the examples below.

`<a class="btn btn-primary" href="#" role="button">This button is a link</a>`

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="#" role="button">This button is a link</a>

`<input class="btn btn-primary" type="submit" value="Submit">`

<input class="btn btn-primary" type="submit" value="Submit">

#### Bootstrap Button Class List:
This is a list of the CSS classes that bootstrap provides for buttons.

`.btn` This is bootstrap's basic button.

<button type="button" class="btn">Basic</button>

`.btn-default` This is bootstrap's default button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-default">Default</button>

`.btn-primary` This is bootstrap's primary button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-primary">Primary</button>

`.btn-success` This is bootstrap's success button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-success">Success</button>

`.btn-info` This is bootstrap's info button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-info">Info</button>

`.btn-warning` This is bootstrap's warning button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-warning">Warning</button>

`.btn-danger` This is bootstrap's danger button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-danger">Danger</button>

`.btn-link` This is bootstrap's link button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-link">Link</button>

`.btn-light` This is bootstrap's light button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-light">Light</button>

#### Bootstrap Button Sizes:
This is a list of the CSS classes for different size of the buttons.

`.btn-lg` This is bootstrap's large button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-lg">Large</button>

`.btn-sm` This is bootstrap's small button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-sm">Small</button>

`.btn-xs` This is bootstrap's extra small button.

<button type="button" class="btn btn-xs">Extra Small</button>

#### Bootstrap Outlined Buttons:
It is possible to also have outlined buttons rather than fully colored in ones. This is achieved by placing the mid fix `outline` between the button class you want. A sample usage would be as follows:

`<button type="button" class="btn btn-outline-primary">Primary</button>`

Outlined buttons are a part of Bootstrap since version 4, please be sure that you are using the right version if you are unable to get them work.

_Note: Do not include the dot in the HTML Class Attribute, referring to the classes with a dot is only used when adjusting the classes in CSS._
Also do not use jquery class of bootrsap with reactjs because it directly affects DOM but reactjs works with virtual DOM , so use react-bootstra with reactjs.

#### More Information: 
* <a href='https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/buttons/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Bootstrap Buttons documentation</a>
* <a href='http://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/button-group/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Bootstrap Button Group documentation</a>
* [Bootstrap Get Started](/articles/bootstrap/bootstrap-get-started)
