guide/english/3D/Blender/index.md, before:


---
title: Blender
---

#Blender

Blender is a free and open source 3D creation suite. It's used for modeling, creating photorealistic renders, simulation, model sculpting, architecture models, compositing, character design, animation, rigging, level design, 2D rendered scenes, motion graphics, game development, VFX, video editing and even much more!

The Blender software is cross-platform that runs on Windows, Linux and Mac.Blender is supported by The Blender Foundation a community from around the world. Developers, animators, scientists, experts and even hobbyists that empowers the softwares development by constantly maintaining, fixing and making new features for a suitable and more responsive user experience.

Blender is free and open source software, released under the  *GNU General Public License (GPL)**.

#### More Information: 

* [Blender Official Website](https://www.blender.org)
* [Blender Documentation](https://docs.blender.org/)
* [The Blender Foundation](https://www.blender.org/foundation/)

Commit message:

Giving some motivation for beginner users
Adding text "Blender can be a pretty difficult software for beginners but once you get the hang of how things work, it transforms into a software that can create really complex stuff".

guide/english/3D/Blender/index.md, after:


---
title: Blender
---

#Blender

Blender is a free and open source 3D creation suite. It's used for modeling, creating photorealistic renders, simulation, model sculpting, architecture models, compositing, character design, animation, rigging, level design, 2D rendered scenes, motion graphics, game development, VFX, video editing and even much more! Blender can be a pretty difficult software for beginners but once you get the hang of how things work, it transforms into a software that can create really complex stuff.

The Blender software is cross-platform that runs on Windows, Linux and Mac.Blender is supported by The Blender Foundation a community from around the world. Developers, animators, scientists, experts and even hobbyists that empowers the softwares development by constantly maintaining, fixing and making new features for a suitable and more responsive user experience.

Blender is free and open source software, released under the  *GNU General Public License (GPL)**.

#### More Information: 

* [Blender Official Website](https://www.blender.org)
* [Blender Documentation](https://docs.blender.org/)
* [The Blender Foundation](https://www.blender.org/foundation/)
