guide/english/sql/sql-union-operator/index.md, before:

---
title: SQL Union Operator
---

## SQL Union Operator

### Description
For this guide we'll discuss the UNION Operator section of the SQL statement.

The UNION Operator is used to combine the results of multiple select statements into one result set.

The SQL statements must have the same number of columns in their Select Statement.

### Basic Example

SQL Statement

```sql
SELECT 'aaaaa'
UNION
SELECT 'bbbbbbbbb';
```

Output

```text
+-----------+
| aaaaa     |
+-----------+
| aaaaa     |
| bbbbbbbbb |
+-----------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

### Example using the student tables

SQL Statement

```sql
SELECT StudentID, FullName FROM student WHERE studentID BETWEEN 1 AND 5
UNION
SELECT studentID, studentEmailAddr FROM `student-contact-info` WHERE studentID BETWEEN 7 AND 8;
```

Output

``` text
+-----------+--------------------------------+
| StudentID | FullName                       |
+-----------+--------------------------------+
|         1 | Monique Davis                  |
|         2 | Teri Gutierrez                 |
|         3 | Spencer Pautier                |
|         4 | Louis Ramsey                   |
|         5 | Alvin Greene                   |
|         7 | Maximo.Smith@freeCodeCamp.org  |
|         8 | Michael.Roach@freeCodeCamp.ort |
+-----------+--------------------------------+
7 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## SQL UNION ALL Operator

The UNION ALL operator is an extension to UNION operator where it should result you a A+B of rows in the ouptput assuming A and B is your input, in simple terms UNION ALL doesn't deduplicate.


### Basic Syntax

SQL Statement

```sql
SELECT expression1, expression2, ... expression_n
FROM tables
[WHERE conditions]
UNION ALL
SELECT expression1, expression2, ... expression_n
FROM tables
[WHERE conditions];
```

As with all of these SQL things there is MUCH MORE to them than what's in this introductory guide.  

I hope this at least gives you enough to get started.  

Please see the manual for your database manager and have fun trying different options yourself.

Commit message:

added specifications needed for SET operators
Added the extra specifications needed for all SET operators in SQL.

guide/english/sql/sql-union-operator/index.md, after:

---
title: SQL Union Operator
---

## SQL Union Operator

### Description
For this guide we'll discuss the UNION Operator section of the SQL statement.

The UNION Operator is used to combine the results of multiple select statements into one result set.

The SQL statements must have the same number of columns in their Select Statement. 
The columns data types and their position in each Select statement should match. 
Each Select statement should have the same number of columns.

The above three statements are applicable to all SET Operators in SQL.

### Basic Example

SQL Statement

```sql
SELECT 'aaaaa'
UNION
SELECT 'bbbbbbbbb';
```

Output

```text
+-----------+
| aaaaa     |
+-----------+
| aaaaa     |
| bbbbbbbbb |
+-----------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

### Example using the student tables

SQL Statement

```sql
SELECT StudentID, FullName FROM student WHERE studentID BETWEEN 1 AND 5
UNION
SELECT studentID, studentEmailAddr FROM `student-contact-info` WHERE studentID BETWEEN 7 AND 8;
```

Output

``` text
+-----------+--------------------------------+
| StudentID | FullName                       |
+-----------+--------------------------------+
|         1 | Monique Davis                  |
|         2 | Teri Gutierrez                 |
|         3 | Spencer Pautier                |
|         4 | Louis Ramsey                   |
|         5 | Alvin Greene                   |
|         7 | Maximo.Smith@freeCodeCamp.org  |
|         8 | Michael.Roach@freeCodeCamp.ort |
+-----------+--------------------------------+
7 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## SQL UNION ALL Operator

The UNION ALL operator is an extension to UNION operator where it should result you a A+B of rows in the ouptput assuming A and B is your input, in simple terms UNION ALL doesn't deduplicate.


### Basic Syntax

SQL Statement

```sql
SELECT expression1, expression2, ... expression_n
FROM tables
[WHERE conditions]
UNION ALL
SELECT expression1, expression2, ... expression_n
FROM tables
[WHERE conditions];
```

As with all of these SQL things there is MUCH MORE to them than what's in this introductory guide.  

I hope this at least gives you enough to get started.  

Please see the manual for your database manager and have fun trying different options yourself.
