---
id: 657e928716b77b2277980276
title: Step 1
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-1
---

# --description--

In this project, you are going to learn about list comprehensions in Python by building a program that can take `camelCase` or `PascalCase` formatted string and convert that to a `snake_case` formatted string. 

List comprehensions in Python are concise way to construct a list without the usage of loops or the `append()` method. Apart from being briefer, list comprehensions often run faster.

Before starting to write out the code for this program, lets first discuss the algorithm that the program will use to do what it's supposed to do. First, assume a string that you'd like to use as input. In my case, the inpur would be "A Long And Complex String", and follows is a table presenting it in different styles.

| Camel Case            | Pascal Case           | Snake Case                |
|-----------------------|-----------------------|---------------------------|
| aLongAndComplexString | ALongAndComplexString | a_long_and_complex_string |

You can either use the camel case or pascal case version of the string as input. One way to convert the input string to snake case is as follows:

- create a list to store the characters in the string
- loop over the input string to access each character
  - if the character you're iterating over is in uppercase
    - prepend an underscore (_) to it and convert it to lowercase
    - append the modified character to the new list
  - if the character you're iterating over is in lowercase
    - append the character as is to the new list
- join all the characters in the list into a string

Remember, this is just one of the ways to solve the given problem. Of course there are other ways, some of them maybe even better than this but I think this'd be a good place to start.

Now that you have an idea about how the program is going to work, start by defining a new function called `convert_to_snake_case` that takes a `pascal_or_camel_cased_string` as input.

# --hints--

You should use the `function` keyword to declare an empty function named `convert_to_snake_case`.

```js
({
  test: () => {
    assert(__pyodide.runPython(`
      import inspect
      a = __locals.get("convert_to_snake_case")
      inspect.isfunction(a)
    `));
  }
})
```

Your function should take accept parameter named `pascal_or_camel_cased_string`.

```js
({
  test: () => {
    assert(__pyodide.runPython(`
      import inspect
      a = __locals.get('convert_to_snake_case')
      'pascal_or_camel_cased_string' in inspect.signature(a).parameters
    `));
  }
})
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
--fcc-editable-region--

--fcc-editable-region--
```
