---
id: 657ee28cefc4945568287673
title: Step 3
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-3
---

# --description--

In this step, you need to loop through the input string. You can use a `for` loop to do that. Unlike other programming languages, `for` loops in Python are a bit different in a sense that you can only use them to iterate over an iterable type.

According to the Python documentation, an object can be said iterable if it's capable of returning its members one at a time such as lists, strings, and tuples. Since, the function accepts a string as input, you should be able access each of its character individually by iterating over it.

You can write a `for` loop in Python by writing out the word `for` followed by space. Then you need write the name of the target variable. On each iteration, this target variable will hold the value of the element that you're currently iterating on.

Since you are iterating over a string, which is a sequence of characters, you can name this variable `character` or `char` for short. Put another space after the variable name. The next piece of the statement is the `in` operator in Python followed by another space.

The final piece of the statement is the name of the iterator itself, which is `pascal_or_camel_cased_string` in this case, followed by a colon. Then from the next line, you can start writing out the body of the loop.

# --hints--

You should create a new `for` loop.

```js

```

You should name the target variable `character` or `char`.

```js

```

Make sure you've used the `in` operator.

```js

```

Make sure you've written the input string name properly: `pascal_or_camel_cased_string`.

```js

```

You should put a colon at the end of the `for` statement.

```js

```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
def convert_to_snake_case(pascal_or_camel_cased_string):
    snake_cased_char_list = []
--fcc-editable-region--


--fcc-editable-region--
```
