guide/english/wordpress/index.md, before:

---
title: WordPress
---

# WordPress

WordPress is a free and open-source content management system based on PHP and MySQL. Features include a plugin architecture and a template system. It is most associated with blogging but supports other types of web content including more traditional mailing lists and forums, media galleries, and online stores.

WordPress powers over 30% of all websites and is by far the most used CMS on the planet. Backed up by a huge community, this open source platform powers a multi-billion dollar economy with themes/plugins and custom software.

Easy to use, Wordpress offers an easy solution for both web developers and non-web developers alike to create a site.

Just to a few advantages of WordPress:
* Users are able to manage their Wordpress webpage from any computer
* Has a blog built-in and ready to go whenever applicable. 
* Has plugins, which extend functionality to WordPress sites. 

Whether its page transitions or a customized contact form, WordPress users are only a few clicks away from success and a beautiful website.


### More Information

- [WordPress Codex: the online manual](https://codex.wordpress.org/)
- [WordPress Code Reference](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/)

Commit message:

Edited introduction for flow
I just tweaked the use of punctuation and word usage, and corrected some grammatical errors in the description of WordPress.

guide/english/wordpress/index.md, after:

---
title: WordPress
---

# WordPress

WordPress is a free and open-source content management system based on PHP and MySQL, including features such as a plugin architecture and a template system. It is most associated with blogging, but supports other types of web content, including mailing lists, forums, media galleries, and online stores.

WordPress powers over 30% of all websites and is by far the most used CMS on the planet. Backed up by a huge community, this open-source platform powers a multi-billion dollar economy with themes, plugins and custom software.

Easy to use, Wordpress offers an easy solution for both web developers and non-web developers alike to create sites.

Here are a few advantages of WordPress:
* Users are able to manage their Wordpress webpage from any computer
* WordPress a blog built-in and ready to go whenever applicable. 
* Available plugins extend functionality to WordPress sites. 

Whether looking for page transitions or a customized contact form, WordPress users are only a few clicks away from success and a beautiful website.


### More Information

- [WordPress Codex: the online manual](https://codex.wordpress.org/)
- [WordPress Code Reference](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/)
