guide/english/python/commenting-code/index.md, before:

---
title: Python Commenting Code
---
Comments are used to annotate, describe, or explain code that is complex or difficult to understand. Python will intentionally ignore comments when it compiles to bytecode by the interpreter. <a href='https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#comments' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>`PEP 8`</a> has a section dealing with comments.They also increases the readablity of code by adding easy and descriptive language for better understanding.

**Block** and **inline** comments start with a `#`, followed by a space before the comment:

```python
    # This is a block comment.
    print('Hello world!') # This is an inline commment.
```

Python does not include a formal way to write multiline comments. Each line of a comment spanning multiple lines should start with `#` and a space:
```python
    # This is the first line of a multiline comment.
    # This is the second line.
```
Another type of comment is the **docstring**, documented in <a href='https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>`PEP 257`</a>. Docstrings are a specific type of comment that becomes the `__doc__` attribute.

For a string literal to be a docstring, it must start and end with `\"\"\"` and be the first statement of the module, function, class, or method definition it is documenting:

```python
    class SomeClass():
        """Summary line for SomeClass.

        More elaborate descriptions may require using a
        a multiline docstring.
        """

        def method_a(self):
            """Single line summary of method_a."""
            pass
```

String literals that start and end with `"""` that are not docstrings (not the first statement), can be used for multiline strings. They will not become `__doc__` attributes. If they are not assigned to a variable, they will not generate bytecode. There is some discussion about using them as multiline comments found <a href='http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7696924/multiline-comments-in-python' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>here</a>.

Commit message:

Update with more from PEP 8
Minor formatting updates, added a section on linguistic formatting and keeping comments updated.

guide/english/python/commenting-code/index.md, after:

---
title: Python Commenting Code
---
Comments are used to annotate, describe, or explain code that is complex or difficult to understand. Python will intentionally ignore comments when it compiles to bytecode by the interpreter. The Python Style Guide, <a href='https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#comments' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>`PEP 8`</a>, has a section dealing with comments. Comments also increase the readablity of code by adding easy and descriptive language for better understanding.

Comments should be readable and make sense within the context of the code. Comments that contradict the code are worse than no comments. Always make a priority of keeping the comments up-to-date when the code changes! Comments should also be complete sentences.

**Block** and **inline** comments start with a `#`, followed by a space before the comment:

```python
    # This is a block comment.
    print('Hello world!') # This is an inline commment.
```

Python does not include a formal way to write multiline comments. Each line of a comment spanning multiple lines should start with `#` and a space:
```python
    # This is the first line of a multiline comment.
    # This is the second line.
```
Another type of comment is the **docstring**, documented in <a href='https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>`PEP 257`</a>. Docstrings are a specific type of comment that becomes the `__doc__` attribute.

For a string literal to be a docstring, it must start and end with `"""` and be the first statement of the module, function, class, or method definition it is documenting:

```python
    class SomeClass():
        """Summary line for SomeClass.

        More elaborate descriptions may require using a
        a multiline docstring.
        """

        def method_a(self):
            """Single line summary of method_a."""
            pass
```

String literals that start and end with `"""` that are not docstrings (not the first statement), can be used for multiline strings. They will not become `__doc__` attributes. If they are not assigned to a variable, they will not generate bytecode. There is some discussion about using them as multiline comments found <a href='http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7696924/multiline-comments-in-python' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>here</a>.
