---
id: 6932f67af2ce50c04f334bf3
title: Task 4
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-4
lang: es
---

<!-- (Audio) Ángela: ¿Cuál es tu nombre y apellido? -->

# --description--

In this task, you will hear Ángela ask someone for some personal details. 

The question uses `¿cuál?`, which is commonly used in Spanish to ask for specific information or to identify something among options, especially when followed by the verb `ser` (to be). For example:

- `¿Cuál es tu número de teléfono?` – What is your phone number?

- `¿Cuál es tu correo electrónico?` – What is your email?

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and answer the question below. 

# --questions--

## --text--

What is the first piece of personal information Ángela asking?

## --answers--

She is asking for someone's age.

### --feedback--

The common way to ask about age in Spanish is `¿Cuántos años tienes?`

---

She is asking where someone is from.

### --feedback--

The common way to ask where someone is from in Spanish is `¿De dónde eres?`

---

She is asking for someone's name.

---

She is asking what someone does for living.

### --feedback--

To ask about someone's profession, Ángela would say `¿Cuál es tu profesión?`

## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

In the question `¿Cuál es tu nombre y apellido?`, Ángela is speaking directly to one person. This introduces the second person singular in Spanish. Notice these key elements:

- `¿Cuál?` – used to ask for specific information or identification.

- `es` – from the verb `ser`. The verb agrees with `nombre`, not with `tú`.

- `tu` – possessive adjective showing the information belongs to the listener.

Structure:

`¿Cuál es tu + noun?`

Even though Ángela is talking to the second person, she uses `es` because the subject of the sentence is `nombre`, not `tú`. Another example:

- `¿Cuál es tu número?`

Use `¿cuál?` with `ser` to ask for specific personal information. In this case, the first piece of information Ángela is asking it the person's name.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "interview-room3.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Ángela",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 25,
          "z": 1.5
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "ES_A1_esteban_personal_records_dialogue_with_angela.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 4.52,
      "finishTimestamp": 6.28
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Ángela",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Ángela",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 2.76,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "¿Cuál es tu nombre y apellido?",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Ángela",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 3.26
    }
  ]
}
```

