---
id: 66001d8b878f5141214f2d77
title: Task 36
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-36
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`descriptions`, `in practice`, `look for`, `listed in`, `navigate`, and `details on`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Tom: I sometimes get confused with the parameters and options BLANK the documentation. What should I do to understand them better?`

`Sarah: You should begin by reading their BLANK. The documentation can provide BLANK what each parameter does and how to use it.`

`Tom: I'll keep that in mind. What should I do next?`

`Sarah: Next, you should BLANK any examples that demonstrate how to use these parameters BLANK. Examples can show you how to set options correctly and what effect they have on the code.`

`Tom: Thank you. Your guidance is helping me BLANK the documentation better. I'll follow your recommendations.`

## --blanks--

`listed in`

### --feedback--

Shown or included in a group or list.

---

`descriptions`

### --feedback--

Words that explain what something is or how it works.

---

`details on`

### --feedback--

Specific information about something.

---

`look for`

### --feedback--

To try to find something.

---

`in practice`

### --feedback--

When something is actually used or done, not just talked about.

---

`navigate`

### --feedback--

To move through something, like a website or document.
