guide/english/css/css-images/index.md, before:

---
title: CSS Images
---
## CSS Images
This helps in adding an image to a website.

#### Code Sample

```<img src="picture.jpg" alt="Picture" width="100" height="100">```

* **src:** It consists the value of the path to the required image</li>
* **alt:** If the image is not displayed then an alternate text can be displayed using alt attribute.</li>
* **width:** This specifies a width for the image(can be percent or px or auto)</li>
* **height:** This specifies a height for the image(can be percent or px or auto)</li>

#### CSS Defaults
The `img` element will be rendered by default in most browsers to be displayed as an inline-block display type unless specified otherwise.

```
img {
     display: inline-block;
     }
```

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->

##### Properties
<a title="The image-orientation CSS property describes how to correct the default orientation of an image." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/image-orientation"><code>image-orientation</code></a>
<a title="The image-rendering CSS property provides a hint to the browser about the algorithm it should use to scale images." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/image-rendering"><code>image-rendering</code></a>
<a title="The object-fit CSS property specifies how a replaced element, such as an <img> or <video>, should be resized to fit its container." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/object-fit"><code>object-fit</code></a>
<a title="The object-position CSS property determines the alignment of the selected element inside its box." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/object-position"><code>object-position</code></a>

##### Functions
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/linear-gradient"><code>linear-gradient()</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/radial-gradient"><code>radial-gradient()</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/repeating-linear-gradient"><code>repeating-linear-gradient()</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/repeating-radial-gradient"><code>repeating-radial-gradient()</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/element"><code>element()</code></a>

##### Datatypes
<a title="The <image> CSS data type represents a 2D image. There are two kinds of images: plain images, typically referenced using a URL, and dynamically-generated images, like those generated with <gradient> or element(). Images can be used with numerous CSS properties, such as background-image, border-image, content, list-style-image, and cursor." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/image"><code>&lt;image&gt;</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/uri"><code>&lt;uri&gt;</code></a>

Commit message:

Added some info
Added some info on changing the dimensions of the image.

guide/english/css/css-images/index.md, after:

---
title: CSS Images
---
## CSS Images
This helps in adding an image to a website.

#### Code Sample

```<img src="picture.jpg" alt="Picture" width="100" height="100">```

* **src:** It consists the value of the path to the required image</li>
* **alt:** If the image is not displayed then an alternate text can be displayed using alt attribute.</li>
* **width:** This specifies a width for the image(can be percent or px or auto)</li>
* **height:** This specifies a height for the image(can be percent or px or auto)</li>

#### CSS Defaults
The `img` element will be rendered by default in most browsers to be displayed as an inline-block display type unless specified otherwise.  

```
img {
     display: inline-block;
     }
```

#### More Information:
<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->
It is advised to change anyone parameter, either height or width to get a proportionate image. Changing both dimensions results in forced scaling and is not advisable.

##### Properties
<a title="The image-orientation CSS property describes how to correct the default orientation of an image." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/image-orientation"><code>image-orientation</code></a>
<a title="The image-rendering CSS property provides a hint to the browser about the algorithm it should use to scale images." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/image-rendering"><code>image-rendering</code></a>
<a title="The object-fit CSS property specifies how a replaced element, such as an <img> or <video>, should be resized to fit its container." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/object-fit"><code>object-fit</code></a>
<a title="The object-position CSS property determines the alignment of the selected element inside its box." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/object-position"><code>object-position</code></a>

##### Functions
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/linear-gradient"><code>linear-gradient()</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/radial-gradient"><code>radial-gradient()</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/repeating-linear-gradient"><code>repeating-linear-gradient()</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/repeating-radial-gradient"><code>repeating-radial-gradient()</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/element"><code>element()</code></a>

##### Datatypes
<a title="The <image> CSS data type represents a 2D image. There are two kinds of images: plain images, typically referenced using a URL, and dynamically-generated images, like those generated with <gradient> or element(). Images can be used with numerous CSS properties, such as background-image, border-image, content, list-style-image, and cursor." href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/image"><code>&lt;image&gt;</code></a>
<a title="The documentation about this has not yet been written; please consider contributing!" href="/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/uri"><code>&lt;uri&gt;</code></a>
