guide/english/html/block-and-inline-elements/index.md, before:

---
title: Block and Inline Elements
---
## Block and Inline Elements

Let us understand them using below examples :

#### Code Sample with Output : 
![Block Output](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16048167/31070017-6f2cf0a2-a77c-11e7-9de6-110b9d0b488d.PNG)

#### Block-Level Element : 
A Block-level element occupies the entire space of the parent(container) such as `<div>` and `<p>` in the example .

Note that both `<div>` and `<p>` start from a new line each time, forming a **block-like** structure. Block-level elements begin on new lines.


Common **block-level elements** are `<div>`,`<p>`,`<article>`,`<section>`,`<figure>`,`<footer>` etc.



#### Inline Element : 
Inline as the name says "included as a part of the main text and not as a separate section". Inline elements occupy the space as needed within the space defined by the main element. Unlike block-level elements, they do not begin on new lines.

Some of the **inline elements** are `<a>`,`<span>`,`<img>`,`<code>`,`<cite>`,`<button>`,`<input>` etc.

#### Code Sample with Output : 
![Inline Output](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16048167/31069389-e1e3fc10-a779-11e7-86d2-6685e0061f52.png)

***Note*** : Block-level elements may contain other block-level elements or inline elements. Inline elements **cannot** contain block-level elements. 

#### Changes In HTML5

While an understanding of block and inline elements is still relevant, you should be aware that these terms were defined in prior versions of the HTML specification. In HTML5, a more complex set of "content categories" replaces block-level and inline elements. Block-level elements are largely placed in the "flow content" category in HTML5, while inline elements correspond to the "phrasing content" catagory. For more information on the new content categories in HTML5, including flow content and phrasing content, refer to the <a href = "https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/Content_categories">Content categories page on the Mozilla Developer Network.</a>

#### More Information:
Please refer <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Block-level_elements#Block-level_vs._inline' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Mozilla Docs</a>

Commit message:

index.md
I added more information about inline elements and block line elements.

guide/english/html/block-and-inline-elements/index.md, after:

---
title: Block and Inline Elements
---
## Block and Inline Elements

Let us understand them using below examples :

#### Code Sample with Output : 
![Block Output](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16048167/31070017-6f2cf0a2-a77c-11e7-9de6-110b9d0b488d.PNG)

#### Block-Level Element : 
A Block-level element occupies the entire space of the parent(container) such as `<div>` and `<p>` in the example .

Note that both `<div>` and `<p>` start from a new line each time, forming a **block-like** structure. Block-level elements begin on new lines.


Common **block-level elements** are `<div>`,`<p>`,`<article>`,`<section>`,`<figure>`,`<footer>`,<form>, <pre>, <table> etc.



#### Inline Element : 
Inline as the name says "included as a part of the main text and not as a separate section". Inline elements occupy the space as needed within the space defined by the main element. Unlike block-level elements, they do not begin on new lines.

Some of the **inline elements** are `<a>`,`<span>`,`<img>`,`<code>`,`<cite>`,`<button>`,`<input>`, <strong>, <em> etc.

#### Code Sample with Output : 
![Inline Output](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16048167/31069389-e1e3fc10-a779-11e7-86d2-6685e0061f52.png)

***Note*** : Block-level elements may contain other block-level elements or inline elements. Inline elements **cannot** contain block-level elements. 

#### Changes In HTML5

While an understanding of block and inline elements is still relevant, you should be aware that these terms were defined in prior versions of the HTML specification. In HTML5, a more complex set of "content categories" replaces block-level and inline elements. Block-level elements are largely placed in the "flow content" category in HTML5, while inline elements correspond to the "phrasing content" catagory. For more information on the new content categories in HTML5, including flow content and phrasing content, refer to the <a href = "https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/Content_categories">Content categories page on the Mozilla Developer Network.</a>

#### More Information:
Please refer <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Block-level_elements#Block-level_vs._inline' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Mozilla Docs</a>

#### Important Information:
Other elements can be used either as Block Line Elements or Inline Elements.This includes the following elements:
APPLET : embedded Java Applet
IFRAME : Inline Frame
MAP : Image map
OBJECT : Embedded Objects
SCRIPT : script with an HTML document.
#### Adding
You can insert inline elements inside block elements 
for ex: You can have multiple <span> elements inside the <div> elements 

#### But inline elements can't contain any block line elements.
