---
id: 68055434109039336ba0108c
title: Task 42
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-42
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

While meeting with Bob, Sarah took notes of the important topics of their discussion.

`Meeting Focus: Making daily huddles more effective`

`Who: Bob and Sarah`

`Problem: Too much repetition in daily updates`

`Current Situation: Backend team meets every morning`

`Suggested Changes:`

- `Keep daily meetings, but shorter`

- `Add detailed updates only 2x per week (Tuesdays + Thursdays at 9 AM)`

- `Teams with fewer changes might meet weekly`

`Next Steps:`

- `Monitor how it works (me)`

- `Submit a report at the end of the month (me)`

- `Review the report and decide if more changes are needed (team)`

What is Sarah responsible for after the meeting?

## --answers--

Tracking the new schedule and writing a report.

### --feedback--

---

Sending daily reminders to the team.

### --feedback--

That task wasn't mentioned in the notes.

---

Planning all future meetings alone.

### --feedback--

Sarah is helping with feedback, but planning is a shared responsibility.

---

Creating a presentation for clients.

### --feedback--

There was no mention of any client presentations in the meeting.

## --video-solution--

1

# --explanation--

The entry `Next Steps` shows the decisions made by Bob and Sarah and the steps they should take to follow these decisions. The first and second lines of this entry (where Sarah says `me`) show the things Sarah will be responsible for. That is where you will find the answer to this question.
