---
id: 6638a7713695f25abd3f3c02
title: Tarefa 47
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-47
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Sarah: It can improve code quality and reduce the time spent on debugging.
-->

# --description--

The verb `improve` means to make something better or to enhance its quality. It's often used in various contexts, including in technological and personal development areas. When something is `improved`, it has been enhanced or developed in a positive way.

For example, `We can improve our coding skills by practicing regularly.`

The phrase `spend time on` is used to describe the action of using time for a particular purpose or activity. It implies that time is like a resource that can be used for various activities, emphasizing the investment of time in those activities. The past participle of `spend` is `spent`. When followed by an action, the verb is in the `-ing` form (gerund),

Examples are `I spend a lot of time on my hobbies.` and `I spend a lot of time reading books.`

`Debugging` is the process of finding and resolving defects or problems within a program.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`It can _ code quality and reduce the time _ _ _.`

## --blanks--

`improve`

### --feedback--

This verb is used to express making something better or enhancing quality. Here, it refers to making the code quality better.

---

`spent`

### --feedback--

This is the past participle of a verb meaning to use time for some activity.

---

`on`

### --feedback--

This preposition is used to indicate that something is focused on a particular activity.

---

`debugging`

### --feedback--

This noun refers to the process of identifying, tracing, and fixing errors in computer programs.
