---
id: 6723ce555ff2dfc0cc04b69a
title: Form Validation with JavaScript Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-form-validation-with-javascript
---

# --description--

Review the concepts below to prepare for the upcoming quiz.

## Validating Forms with JavaScript

- **Constraint Validation API**: Certain HTML elements, such as the `textarea` and `input` elements, expose a constraint validation API. This API allows you to assert that the user's provided value for that element passes any HTML-level validation you have written, such as minimum length or pattern matching. 
- **`checkValidity()` method**: This method returns `true` if the element matches all HTML validation (based on its attributes), and `false` if it fails.

```js
const input = document.querySelector("input");

input.addEventListener("input", (e) => {
  if (!e.target.checkValidity()) {
    e.target.setCustomValidity("You must use a .com email.")
  }
})
```

- **`reportValidity()` Method**: This method tells the browser that the `input` is invalid.

```js
const input = document.querySelector("input");

input.addEventListener("input", (e) => {
  if (!e.target.checkValidity()) {
    e.target.reportValidity();
  }
})
```

- **`validity` Property**: This property is used to get or set the validity state of form controls (like `<input>`, `<select>`, etc.) and provides information about whether the user input meets the constraints defined for that element (e.g., `required` fields, pattern constraints, maximum length, etc.).

```js
const input = document.querySelector("input");

input.addEventListener("input", (e) => {
  console.log(e.target.validity);
})
```

- **`patternMismatch` Property**: This will be `true` if the value doesn't match the specified regular expression pattern.

## `preventDefault()` Method

- **Definition**: Every event that triggers in the DOM has some sort of default behavior. The click event on a checkbox toggles the state of that checkbox, by default. Pressing the space bar on a focused button activates the button. The `preventDefault()` method on these `Event` objects stops that behavior from happening.

```js
button.addEventListener('click',(event) => {
  // Prevent the default button click behavior  
  event.preventDefault(); 
  alert('Button click prevented!');
});
```

## Submitting Forms

- **Definition**: There are three ways a form can be submitted. The first is when the user clicks a button in the form which has the `type` attribute set to `submit`. The second is when the user presses the `Enter` key on any editable `input` field in the form. The third is through a JavaScript call to the `requestSubmit()` or `submit()` methods of the `form` element.
- **`action` Attribute**: The `action` attribute should contain either a URL or a relative path for the current domain. This value determines where the form attempts to send data - if you do not set an `action` attribute, the form will send data to the current page's URL. 

```html
<form action="https://freecodecamp.org">
  <input
    type="number"
    id="input"
    placeholder="Enter a number"
    name="number"
  />
  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

- **`method` Attribute**: This attribute accepts a standard `HTTP` method, such as `GET` or `POST`, and uses that method when making the request to the action URL. When a method is not set, the form will default to a `GET` request. The data in the form will be URL encoded as `name=value` pairs and appended to the action URL as query parameters.

```html
<form action="/data" method="POST">
  <input
    type="number"
    id="input"
    placeholder="Enter a number"
    name="number"
  />
  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

- **`enctype` Attribute**: The `form` element accepts an `enctype` attribute, which represents the encoding type to use for the data. This attribute only accepts three values: `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` (which is the default, sending the data as a URL-encoded form body), `text/plain` (which sends the data in plaintext form, in `name=value` pairs separated by new lines), or `multipart/form-data`, which is specifically for handling forms with a file upload.


# --assignment--

Review the Form Validation with JavaScript topics and concepts.
