---
id: 6614ad58c102e15df06c96d5
title: Task 15
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-15
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Sophie: I think we’re going to focus on social media marketing. It's cost-effective, and it will reach a broader audience.
-->

# --description--

`Cost-effective` means providing good value or return in relation to the money spent or effort put in. It's often used to describe a strategy or method that is efficient and economical. For example, `Using email campaigns is a cost-effective way to reach customers.`

To `reach` in marketing means to come into contact with or communicate with a target group. Like saying, `Our ads reach thousands of people daily.`

`Broader` means wider or more extensive. In a marketing context, it refers to targeting a wider range of people. For instance, `Expanding our social media presence will attract a broader audience.`

An `audience` refers to the group of people who watch, read, or listen to something, especially in relation to marketing and media. `We need to understand our audience to create effective content.`

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`I think we’re going to focus on social media marketing. It's _, and it will _ a _ audience.`

## --blanks--

`cost-effective`

### --feedback--

It indicates an efficient use of resources to achieve a result, in this case, for marketing.

---

`reach`

### --feedback--

It means to communicate or connect with a particular group of people, in this context, the target audience.

---

`broader`

### --feedback--

It implies targeting a wider or more diverse group of people.
