---
id: 6752fc06607eba1e73a89929
title: Task 34
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-34
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After discussing with Brian, Jessica wrote this scheduled maintenance notification:

`We will conduct scheduled maintenance to improve our systems and ensure everything runs smoothly. During the maintenance window, starting at 2:00 AM on Friday night, our team will be monitoring the system and testing the server load to prevent any unexpected issues. The maintenance is expected to last about 2 hours.`

`Our developers will double-check the security features to make sure the system is protected against potential DoS attacks. At the same time, we will run stress tests to evaluate performance and stability under heavy traffic.`

`We are publishing this notification to inform you in advance, as the website may experience downtime during this period. Thank you for your understanding as we continue preparing updates and improvements to provide you with a better experience.`

`Thank you,`
`Support Team`

Why was this notification published?

## --answers--

To explain the purpose of the website.

### --feedback--

The text does not focus on informing users about the purpose of the website.

---

To inform users in advance about the scheduled maintenance.

---

To announce new features for the website.

### --feedback--

The text does not mention new features.

---

To warn users about a system failure.

### --feedback--

The text is not about a system failure.

## --video-solution--

2

# --explanation--

To find the correct answer, consider the purpose of the notification.

It clearly states that it is being published to inform users about the maintenance in advance.

Look for the option that matches this intention.
