---
id: 688170ebc58d8d3b1ae493a2
title: What Is Nano?
challengeType: 19
dashedName: what-is-nano
---

# --description--

Let's learn about the text editor Nano.

When working in the terminal, standard text editors aren't always available, but there are programs designed to edit files directly from within the terminal.

Linux environments typically include a text editor. Vi, or Vim, tend to be the most common. Emacs and Nano may need to be installed manually, but they are readily available for nearly every distribution.

The challenge with Vim is it has a substantial learning curve. If you are not already familiar with it, you may not even know how to close the application! Emacs is arguably a bit more user friendly, but still has its own tome of keyboard shortcuts.

Nano is considerably more streamlined and user-friendly, especially for new learners. It can be much quicker to dive in and edit a file with Nano, and the application even offers on-screen help for the basic keyboard shortcuts.

The tradeoff for this, however, is the lack of extensibility. Unlike Vim or Emacs, which can be extended with plugins to become full development environments, Nano is rather barebones.

Let's take a peek at what Nano can do. To open a file, you can enter `nano <filename>` in the terminal.

Once a file is open, you will the version of Nano you are running and the name of the file you have open at the top of the screen.

Below that is the content of the file. You can use the arrow keys to navigate your cursor and insert or delete text with your keyboard. The file will scroll as needed to follow.

And then, at the bottom, you will see the list of most commonly used keyboard shortcuts, that looks something like this:

```bash
^G Help   ^O Write Out    ^F Where Is   ^K Cut      ^T Execute  ^C Location     M-U Undo    M-A Set Mark    M-] To Bracket    M-B Previous
^X Exit   ^R Read File    ^\ Replace    ^U Paste    ^J Justify  ^/ Go To Line   M-E Redo    M-6 Copy        ^B Where Was      M-F Next
```

Shortcuts which start with the carat ^ symbol indicate you need to hold the Ctrl key and press the indicated letter. Shortcuts which start with M- require you to hold the “meta key”, which in most setups should be the Alt key, and press the letter.

If you press Ctrl+G, you can get the help screen:


This built in guide will give you the full list of keyboard shortcuts and how to use them.

Finally, the most common shortcut you may need is not actually listed in the editor view. That would be Ctrl+S to save your current changes.

With this knowledge, you should be better prepared the next time you need to quickly edit a file on a remote server, where you might not have access to a full graphical environment.



# --questions--

## --text--

What is the purpose of the "shebang" line in a Bash script?

## --answers--

It's a comment that describes what the script does.

### --feedback--

The shebang appears at the very beginning of a script file.

---

It indicates what interpreter should be used for the script.

---

It defines the variables used in the script.

### --feedback--

The shebang appears at the very beginning of a script file.

---

It marks the beginning of a for loop.

### --feedback--

The shebang appears at the very beginning of a script file.

## --video-solution--

2
