---
id: 6723d027b02e4cc6ee5944da
title: JavaScript Maps, Sets, and JSON Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-javascript-maps-sets-and-json
---

# --description--

Review the concepts below to prepare for the upcoming quiz.

## Sets in JavaScript

- A Set is a built-in option for managing data collection. 
- Sets ensure that each value in it appears only once, making it useful for eliminating duplicates from an array or handling collections of distinct values.
- You can create a Set using the `Set()` constructor.
- Sets can be manipulated using methods like `add()`, `delete()`, `has()`, and `clear()`.

## Weaksets in JavaScript

- WeakSet is a collection of objects that allows you to store weakly held objects.

## Sets vs WeakSets

- Unlike Sets, a WeakSet does not support primitives like numbers or strings.
- A WeakSet only stores objects, and the references to those objects are "weak," meaning that if the object is not being used anywhere else in your code, it is removed automatically to free up memory.

## Maps in JavaScript

- A Map is a built-in object that holds key-value pairs just like an object. 
- Maps differ from the standard JavaScript objects with their ability to allow keys of any type, including objects, and functions.
- A Map provides better performance over the standard object when it comes to frequent addition and removals of key-value pairs.
- You can create a Map using the `Map()` constructor.
- Maps can be manipulated using methods like `set()`, `get()`, `delete()`, `has()`, and `clear()`.

## WeakMaps in JavaScript

- A WeakMap is a collection of key-value pairs just like Map, but with weak references to the keys. The keys must be an object and the values can be anything you like.

## Maps vs WeakMaps

- WeakMaps are similar to WeakSets in that they only store objects and the references to those objects are "weak."

# --assignment--

Review the JavaScript Maps, Sets, and JSON topics and concepts.
