guide/english/git/gitignore/index.md, before:

---
title: Gitignore
---
## Gitignore

The `.gitignore` file is a text file that tells Git which files or folders to ignore in a project.

A local `.gitignore` file is usually placed in the root directory of a project. You can also create a global `.gitignore` file and any entries in that file will be ignored in all of your Git repositories.

To create a local `.gitignore` file, create a text file and name it `.gitignore` (remember to include the `.` at the beginning). Then edit this file as needed. Each new line should list an additional file or folder that you want Git to ignore.

The entries in this file can also follow a matching pattern.

* `*` is used as a wildcard match
* `/` is used to ignore pathnames relative to the `.gitignore` file
* `#` is used to add comments to a `.gitignore` file

This is an example of what the `.gitignore` file could look like:

```
# Ignore Mac system files
.DS_store

# Ignore node_modules folder
node_modules

# Ignore all text files
*.txt

# Ignore files related to API keys
.env

# Ignore SASS config files
.sass-cache
```

To add or change your global .gitignore file, run the following command:
```bash
git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore_global
```
This will create the file `~/.gitignore_global`. Now you can edit that file the same way as a local `.gitignore` file. All of your Git repositories will ignore the files and folders listed in the global `.gitignore` file.

### More Information:
- Git documentation: <a href='https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>gitignore</a>
- Ignoring files: <a href='https://help.github.com/articles/ignoring-files/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>GitHub</a>
- Useful `.gitignore` templates: <a href='https://github.com/github/gitignore' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>GitHub</a>

Commit message:

Guide: gitignore file creation error in windows

guide/english/git/gitignore/index.md, after:

---
title: Gitignore
---
## Gitignore

The `.gitignore` file is a text file that tells Git which files or folders to ignore in a project. If you make any changes in this ignored file, then it will not be displayed on your [`git status`](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/blob/master/guide/english/git/git-status/index.md) command

A local `.gitignore` file is usually placed in the root directory of a project. However, if your project has multiple modules, then you may maintain a separate `.gitignore` file for each of the modules. You can also create a global `.gitignore` file and any entries in that file will be ignored in all of your Git repositories.

To create a local `.gitignore` file, create a text file and name it `.gitignore` (remember to include the `.` at the beginning). Then edit this file as needed. Each new line should list an additional file or folder that you want Git to ignore.

Note: While creating the `.gitignore` file from your Windows explorer, you might get an error like this:
![gitignore file creation error in Windows](gitignore-file-creation-error-windows.png)

One way to circumvent this issue is to create this `.gitignore` file using `notepad.exe`. Open Notepad and then select File -> Save As -> Write `.gitignore` and choose "All Files" as the type. Then it will create the `.gitignore` file for you.


The entries in this file can also follow a matching pattern.

* `*` is used as a wildcard match
* `/` is used to ignore pathnames relative to the `.gitignore` file
* `#` is used to add comments to a `.gitignore` file

This is an example of what the `.gitignore` file could look like:

```
# Ignore Mac system files
.DS_store

# Ignore node_modules folder
node_modules

# Ignore all text files
*.txt

# Ignore files related to API keys
.env

# Ignore SASS config files
.sass-cache
```

To add or change your global .gitignore file, run the following command:
```bash
git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore_global
```
This will create the file `~/.gitignore_global`. Now you can edit that file the same way as a local `.gitignore` file. All of your Git repositories will ignore the files and folders listed in the global `.gitignore` file.

### More Information:
- Git documentation: <a href='https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>gitignore</a>
- Ignoring files: <a href='https://help.github.com/articles/ignoring-files/' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>GitHub</a>
- Useful `.gitignore` templates: <a href='https://github.com/github/gitignore' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>GitHub</a>
