guide/english/cloud-development/index.md, before:

---
title: Cloud Development
---
## Cloud Development

Cloud development is the usage of software engineering practices on infrastructure components in a shared resource pool. This can be done in multiple manners, within your company or organizations own data center, or in a "public" shared datacenter owned and operated by a third party.

Popular choices for Public Cloud providers are Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Compute Engine. These providers operate clusters of massive datacenters whereby thousands of different individuals, companies, and organizations consume these resources. Operating the Cloud involves enabling the partitioning of these shared resources for the usage of these different users. The consumption of the resources is tracked (also referred to as metered) and then billed back to the user depending on the different financial scheme for the various compute, network, and storage resources consumed.

Many modern websites and big data efforts are said to be developed in the Cloud, meaning they are operating in some of these massive shared datacenters.

#### More Information:

[Getting Started with AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/)
[Google Cloud Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/docs/)
[Getting Started with Microsoft Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/guides/developer/azure-developer-guide)
[Firebase Documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/)

Commit message:

inclusion of  private cloud clients

guide/english/cloud-development/index.md, after:

---
title: Cloud Development
---
## Cloud Development

Cloud development is the usage of software engineering practices on infrastructure components in a shared resource pool. This can be done in multiple manners, within your company or organizations own data center, or in a "public" shared datacenter owned and operated by a third party.

Popular choices for Public Cloud providers are Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Compute Engine. These providers operate clusters of massive datacenters whereby thousands of different individuals, companies, and organizations consume these resources. Operating the Cloud involves enabling the partitioning of these shared resources for the usage of these different users. The consumption of the resources is tracked (also referred to as metered) and then billed back to the user depending on the different financial scheme for the various compute, network, and storage resources consumed. Private cloud storage clients such as Veeam are also used on a large scale,mostly when dealing with government and civil virtual architectures.

Many modern websites and big data efforts are said to be developed in the Cloud, meaning they are operating in some of these massive shared datacenters.

#### More Information:

[Getting Started with AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/)
[Google Cloud Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/docs/)
[Getting Started with Microsoft Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/guides/developer/azure-developer-guide)
[Firebase Documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/)
