---
title: Introduction to the MongoDB and Mongoose Challenges
block: MongoDB and Mongoose
superBlock: APIs and Microservices
---
## Introduction to the MongoDB and Mongoose Challenges

MongoDB is a database that stores data records (documents) for use by an application. Mongo is a non-relational, "NoSQL" database. This means Mongo stores all data associated within one record, instead of storing it across many preset tables as in a SQL database. Some benefits of this storage model are:<br><br><ul><li>Scalability: by default, non-relational databases are split (or "sharded") across many systems instead of only one. This makes it easier to improve performance at a lower cost.</li><li>Flexibility: new datasets and properties can be added to a document without the need to make a new table for that data.</li><li>Replication: copies of the database run in parallel so if one goes down, one of the copies becomes the new primary data source.</li></ul><br>While there are many non-relational databases, Mongo's use of JSON as its document storage structure makes it a logical choice when learning backend JavaScript. Accessing documents and their properties is like accessing objects in JavaScript.<br><br>Mongoose.js is an npm module for Node.js that allows you to write objects for Mongo as you would in JavaScript. This can make is easier to construct documents for storage in Mongo.
Working on these challenges will involve you writing your code on Glitch on our starter project. After completing each challenge you can copy your public glitch url (to the homepage of your app) into the challenge screen to test it! Optionally you may choose to write your project on another platform but it must be publicaly visible for our testing.<br>Start this project on Glitch using <a href='https://glitch.com/#!/import/github/freeCodeCamp/boilerplate-mongomongoose/'>this link</a> or clone <a href='https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/boilerplate-mongomongoose/'>this repository</a> on GitHub! If you use Glitch, remember to save the link to your project somewhere safe!

