---
id: 6622346c798d906ee4d31846
title: Task 45
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-45
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Maria: One last thing. We're a collaborative team and supporting each other is key to our success. So don't hesitate to ask for help from the team if you need it. Welcome again.
-->

# --description--

`Last` refers to the final item in a series or the most recent. For example, `The last chapter of the book` means the final chapter.

`Collaborative` means working together with others to achieve a common goal. In a team, being `collaborative` involves sharing ideas, helping each other, and working jointly on projects.

`Supporting each other` means helping and encouraging one another. In a team context, it's about team members assisting and motivating each other.

`The key to` is used to express that something is crucial or very important for achieving a certain result. For example, `Practicing every day is the key to improving your English skills.`

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`One _ thing. We're a _ team and _ each other is _ to our success. So don't _ to ask for help from the team if you need it. Welcome again.`

## --blanks--

`last`

### --feedback--

In this context, it refers to the final point Maria wants to make.

---

`collaborative`

### --feedback--

It describes the team’s nature of working together and helping each other.

---

`supporting`

### --feedback--

It is about team members helping and encouraging one another.

---

`key`

### --feedback---

It refers to something that is very important in achieving a specific goal or outcome.

---

`hesitate`

### --feedback--

It means to pause before doing something, often because you are not sure or are nervous.
