---
id: 65dab20c41a21a817084ecdb
title: Task 100
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-100
audioPath: curriculum/js-music-player/We-Are-Going-to-Make-it.mp3
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Brian: It sounds like you're doing great dealing with work and life responsibilities at the same time.
-->

# --description--

The phrase `you're doing great` is a way to tell someone they are performing very well or successfully managing a situation. It's a form of encouragement or praise. For example, `After seeing how well you organized the event, I must say, you're doing great!`

After it, you can use phrases starting with `verb-ing` that describe what the person is doing well at. For instance, `You're doing great keeping up with your studies.`

`Deal with` means to manage or handle something, especially a problem or challenge. It involves taking action to address a situation or problem. For example, `She has to deal with a lot of emails every morning.`

The phrase `at the same time` indicates that two or more actions or events are happening together, not separately.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`It sounds like you're _ _ _ _ work and life responsibilities at the same time.`

## --blanks--

`doing`

### --feedback--

This word is used to describe how someone is performing or managing in a situation.

---

`great`

### --feedback--

This adjective is used to express that the performance is very good.

---

`dealing`

### --feedback--

This word means managing or handling, especially when talking about problems or tasks. Remember to add `ing` after the verb.

---

`with`

### --feedback--

This preposition is used to indicate what someone is managing or handling.
