---
id: 685e5b48d4770d0dfbac7497
title: Task 80
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-80
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`when needed`, `emphasizes`, `security operations`, `dedicated professional`, `security`, and `department`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Tom: I got this message saying I must talk to Jeff from the Security BLANK. Do you know him?`

`Maria: Yeah, I've seen him around. He's responsible for BLANK in our company. He's been with us for some time, nearly ten years. He's tall and has curly hair. He always has this vigilant look, probably a result of his job.`

`Tom: He sounds like a BLANK. I've always wondered what the folks in security do around here. What are his responsibilities?`

`Maria: He makes sure the company's data and facilities are secure, monitors access controls, and conducts investigations BLANK. He also ensures that everyone follows security procedures.`

`Tom: Ah, speaking of procedures, is there anything he's told you that we need to do when it comes to office BLANK?`

`Maria: Yes, there is one thing he BLANK: you mustn't share your access cards or passwords with anyone. Security is a big deal for him.`

`Tom: Understandable. Well, thanks.`

`Maria: No problem. If you ever need any security tips, you really must talk to Jeff.`

## --blanks--

`department`

### --feedback--

A part of a company that does a specific type of work.

---

`security operations`

### --feedback--

The work of protecting systems, data, and people in a company.

---

`dedicated professional`

### --feedback--

Someone who works hard and takes their job seriously.

---

`when needed`

### --feedback--

Only at the time something is required.

---

`security`

### --feedback--

Protection from danger or keeping something safe.

---

`emphasizes`

### --feedback--

Shows that something is very important or gives it special attention.
