guide/english/css/index.md, before:

---
title: Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)
---

### Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)

CSS is an acronym for Cascading Style Sheets. It was first invented in 1996, and is now a standard feature of all major web browsers.

CSS allows for developers to control how web pages look by "styling" the HTML structure of that page.

CSS specifications are maintained by the [World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)](https://www.w3.org/).

You can build some pretty amazing things in CSS alone, such as this pure-CSS [Minesweeper game](https://codepen.io/bali_balo/pen/BLJONk) (which uses no JavaScript).

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*GFcKk9KxqHAnWa1ECcKDOQ.png)

#### Suggested Reading:
A good start is the freeCodeCamp curriculum [Introduction to Basic CSS](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/basic-css).

Another suggestion for beginners is W3C's [Starting with HTML + CSS](https://www.w3.org/Style/Examples/011/firstcss) teaches how to create a style sheet.

The site [CSS Zen Garden](http://www.csszengarden.com/) is a great example how the same html can be styled to look totally unique.

For a demonstration of the power of CSS, check out [Species In Pieces](http://species-in-pieces.com/#).

Commit message:

Added Popular CSS Frameworks 2018 section and description

guide/english/css/index.md, after:

---
title: Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)
---

### Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)

CSS is an acronym for Cascading Style Sheets. It was first invented in 1996, and is now a standard feature of all major web browsers.

CSS allows for developers to control how web pages look by "styling" the HTML structure of that page.

CSS specifications are maintained by the [World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)](https://www.w3.org/).

You can build some pretty amazing things in CSS alone, such as this pure-CSS [Minesweeper game](https://codepen.io/bali_balo/pen/BLJONk) (which uses no JavaScript).

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*GFcKk9KxqHAnWa1ECcKDOQ.png)

### Popular CSS Frameworks 2018
Frameworks exist to make the more complex parts of css easier and more efficient for developers to build out websites.
Some of the most popular CSS Frameworks are:
Bootstrap, Foundation, Bulma, uikit, Semantic UI, mini.css, Materialize, Material Design Lite, Spectre and Kube

#### Suggested Reading:
A good start is the freeCodeCamp curriculum [Introduction to Basic CSS](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/basic-css).

Another suggestion for beginners is W3C's [Starting with HTML + CSS](https://www.w3.org/Style/Examples/011/firstcss) teaches how to create a style sheet.

The site [CSS Zen Garden](http://www.csszengarden.com/) is a great example how the same html can be styled to look totally unique.

For a demonstration of the power of CSS, check out [Species In Pieces](http://species-in-pieces.com/#).
