guide/english/angular/index.md, before:

---
title: Angular
---
## Angular

AngularJS (versions 1.x) is a JavaScript based open source Framework. It is cross platform and used to develop Single Page Web Application (SPWA). AngularJS implements the MVC pattern to separate the logic , presentation and data components. It also uses dependency injection to make use of server-side services in client side applications.

Angular(versions 2.x and up) is a Typescript based open source framework to develop front-end Web application. Angular has following features like generics, static-typing and also some ES6 features.

## Version History

Google released the initial version of AngularJS on October 20,2010. Stable release of AngularJS was on December 18, 2017 of version 1.6.8. Angular 2.0 release took place on Sep-22 2014 at ng-Europe conference. One of the feature of Angular 2.0 is dynamic loading.

After some modifications, Angular 4.0 was released on Dec-2016. Angular 4 is backward compatible with Angular 2.0. HttpClient library is one of the feature of Angular 4.0. Angular 5 release was on November 1, 2017. Support for Progressive web apps was one of the improvement in the Angular 4.0. Angular 6 release was in May 2018. The latest stable version is [6.1.9](https://blog.angular.io/angular-v6-1-now-available-typescript-2-9-scroll-positioning-and-more-9f1c03007bb6)

**Install**:
 
We can add Angular either by referencing the sources available or downloading the framework.

**Link To Source**:

AngularJS: We can add AngularJS(Angular 1.x versions) by referencing the Content Delivery Network from Google.

```html
<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/angularjs/1.6.4/angular.min.js"></script> 
```

Download/install: We can download the framework with npm, Bower or composer

**Angular 1.x**:

npm

```shell 
npm install angular
```
Then add a `<script>` to your `index.html`:

```html
<script src="/node_modules/angular/angular.js"></script>
```

bower

```shell
bower install angular
```
Then add a `<script>` to your `index.html`:

```html
<script src="/bower_components/angular/angular.js"></script>
```

For more information regarding the documentation, refer to the official site of [AngularJS](https://docs.angularjs.org/api) 

You can install **Angular 2.x** and other versions by following the steps from the official documentation of [Angular](https://angular.io/guide/quickstart)

*Note : Please refer the Angular documentation for the updated information.*

Commit message:

Updated index.md w/ info about Angular 7
Added information about the news in Angular 7. Also changed latest stable version to version 7.0.

guide/english/angular/index.md, after:

---
title: Angular
---
## Angular

AngularJS (versions 1.x) is a JavaScript based open source Framework. It is cross platform and used to develop Single Page Web Application (SPWA). AngularJS implements the MVC pattern to separate the logic , presentation and data components. It also uses dependency injection to make use of server-side services in client side applications.

Angular(versions 2.x and up) is a Typescript based open source framework to develop front-end Web application. Angular has following features like generics, static-typing and also some ES6 features.

## Version History

Google released the initial version of AngularJS on October 20,2010. Stable release of AngularJS was on December 18, 2017 of version 1.6.8. Angular 2.0 release took place on Sep-22 2014 at ng-Europe conference. One of the feature of Angular 2.0 is dynamic loading.

After some modifications, Angular 4.0 was released on Dec-2016. Angular 4 is backward compatible with Angular 2.0. HttpClient library is one of the feature of Angular 4.0. Angular 5 release was on November 1, 2017. Support for Progressive web apps was one of the improvement in the Angular 4.0. Angular 6 release was in May 2018. Angular 7 was released in October 2018, and added Virtual Scroll, Drag and Drop and CLI prompts. The latest stable version is [7.0](https://blog.angular.io/version-7-of-angular-cli-prompts-virtual-scroll-drag-and-drop-and-more-c594e22e7b8c)

**Install**:
 
We can add Angular either by referencing the sources available or downloading the framework.

**Link To Source**:

AngularJS: We can add AngularJS(Angular 1.x versions) by referencing the Content Delivery Network from Google.

```html
<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/angularjs/1.6.4/angular.min.js"></script> 
```

Download/install: We can download the framework with npm, Bower or composer

**Angular 1.x**:

npm

```shell 
npm install angular
```
Then add a `<script>` to your `index.html`:

```html
<script src="/node_modules/angular/angular.js"></script>
```

bower

```shell
bower install angular
```
Then add a `<script>` to your `index.html`:

```html
<script src="/bower_components/angular/angular.js"></script>
```

For more information regarding the documentation, refer to the official site of [AngularJS](https://docs.angularjs.org/api) 

You can install **Angular 2.x** and other versions by following the steps from the official documentation of [Angular](https://angular.io/guide/quickstart)

*Note : Please refer the Angular documentation for the updated information.*
