guide/english/sql/sql-where-clause/index.md, before:

---
title: SQL Where Clause
---

## SQL Where Clause

### `WHERE` Clause (and/or, `IN`, `BETWEEN`, and `LIKE`)

The `WHERE` clause is used to limit the number of rows returned.  

In this case all five of these will be used is a some what ridiculous `WHERE` clause. 

Here is the current full student list to compare to the `WHERE` clause result set:

```sql
select studentID, FullName, sat_score, rcd_updated from student;
```

```text
+-----------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+
| studentID | FullName               | sat_score | rcd_updated         |
+-----------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+
|         1 | Monique Davis          |       400 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         2 | Teri Gutierrez         |       800 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         3 | Spencer Pautier        |      1000 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         4 | Louis Ramsey           |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         5 | Alvin Greene           |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         6 | Sophie Freeman         |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         7 | Edgar Frank "Ted" Codd |      2400 | 2017-08-16 15:35:33 |
|         8 | Donald D. Chamberlin   |      2400 | 2017-08-16 15:35:33 |
|         9 | Raymond F. Boyce       |      2400 | 2017-08-16 15:35:33 |
+-----------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+
9 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

Rows will be presented that....

* `WHERE` Student IDs are between 1 and 5 (inclusive) 
* `OR` studentID = 8 

Here's an updated query, where any record that has an SAT score that's in this list (1000, 1400) will not be presented:

```sql

select  studentID, FullName, sat_score, recordUpdated
from    student
where   (studentID between 1 and 5 or studentID = 8)
        and
        sat_score NOT in (1000, 1400);
```

```text
+-----------+----------------------+-----------+---------------------+
| studentID | FullName             | sat_score | rcd_updated         |
+-----------+----------------------+-----------+---------------------+
|         1 | Monique Davis        |       400 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         2 | Teri Gutierrez       |       800 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         4 | Louis Ramsey         |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         5 | Alvin Greene         |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         8 | Donald D. Chamberlin |      2400 | 2017-08-16 15:35:33 |
+-----------+----------------------+-----------+---------------------+
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

*As with all of these SQL things there is MUCH MORE to them than what's in this introductory guide.  

I hope this at least gives you enough to get started.  

Please see the manual for your database manager and have fun trying different options yourself.

Commit message:

Change sentences for better comprehension
1. Change "limit" to "filter"
2. Change "Rows will be presented that...." to "We 'd like to apply the following filters:"

guide/english/sql/sql-where-clause/index.md, after:

---
title: SQL Where Clause
---

## SQL Where Clause

### `WHERE` Clause (and/or, `IN`, `BETWEEN`, and `LIKE`)

The `WHERE` clause is used to filter the number of rows returned.  

In this case all five of these will be used is a some what ridiculous `WHERE` clause. 

Here is the current full student list to compare to the `WHERE` clause result set:

```sql
select studentID, FullName, sat_score, rcd_updated from student;
```

```text
+-----------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+
| studentID | FullName               | sat_score | rcd_updated         |
+-----------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+
|         1 | Monique Davis          |       400 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         2 | Teri Gutierrez         |       800 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         3 | Spencer Pautier        |      1000 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         4 | Louis Ramsey           |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         5 | Alvin Greene           |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         6 | Sophie Freeman         |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         7 | Edgar Frank "Ted" Codd |      2400 | 2017-08-16 15:35:33 |
|         8 | Donald D. Chamberlin   |      2400 | 2017-08-16 15:35:33 |
|         9 | Raymond F. Boyce       |      2400 | 2017-08-16 15:35:33 |
+-----------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+
9 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

We 'd like to apply the following filters:

* `WHERE` Student IDs are between 1 and 5 (inclusive) 
* `OR` studentID = 8 

Here's an updated query, where any record that has an SAT score that's in this list (1000, 1400) will not be presented:

```sql

select  studentID, FullName, sat_score, recordUpdated
from    student
where   (studentID between 1 and 5 or studentID = 8)
        and
        sat_score NOT in (1000, 1400);
```

```text
+-----------+----------------------+-----------+---------------------+
| studentID | FullName             | sat_score | rcd_updated         |
+-----------+----------------------+-----------+---------------------+
|         1 | Monique Davis        |       400 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         2 | Teri Gutierrez       |       800 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         4 | Louis Ramsey         |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         5 | Alvin Greene         |      1200 | 2017-08-16 15:34:50 |
|         8 | Donald D. Chamberlin |      2400 | 2017-08-16 15:35:33 |
+-----------+----------------------+-----------+---------------------+
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

*As with all of these SQL things there is MUCH MORE to them than what's in this introductory guide.  

I hope this at least gives you enough to get started.  

Please see the manual for your database manager and have fun trying different options yourself.
