---
id: 68f253a24b41de2bca1f5a96
title: Task 30
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-30
lang: es
---

<!-- NO AUDIO -->

# --description--

Let's talk about the special characters that you'll commonly find in Spanish.

## Opening Punctuation Marks

In Spanish, questions and exclamations are marked with opening and closing punctuation marks.

While some languages only need the closing question mark (`?`) or exclamation point (`!`), Spanish also requires an inverted question mark (`¿`) at the beginning of a question and an inverted exclamation point (`¡`) at the beginning of an exclamation. For example:

- `¿Hoy?` - Today?

- `¡Sí!` - Yes!

<br />

## Unique Letters and Letter Combinations

As you learned, the letter `ñ` is unique in Spanish.

The letter combination `ll` also has a unique sound, similar to a letter `y` in Spanish. For example:

`Lluvia` - Rain

<br />

## Accent Marks

In Spanish, you'll also find a unique symbol called an "accent mark" that indicates where you should stress the pronunciation. It's very important because its presence and location can change the meaning of a word.

Only vowels can carry accent marks (`á`, `é`, `í`, `ó`, `ú`). Consonants never carry them.

For example, the meaning of the word `público` ("audience") is different from `publicó` ("published"). Their only difference is the location of the accent mark.

Interesting, right? You'll learn more about accent marks in more advanced lessons.

<br />

## Diaeresis

The diaeresis (`diéresis` in Spanish) is a symbol that appears over the letter `u` to indicate that this letter must be pronounced.

When the letter `u` has a diaeresis, it looks like this: `ü`

You'll find it in `güe` and `güi`. For example:

`Pingüino` - Penguin

This one is a bit more advanced and not so common in Spanish, but it's good to you know what it's used for. We'll review it later on.

# --instructions--

Now it's time to practice. Write the corresponding opening punctuation marks below.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`BLANKNo?`

`BLANKSí!`

## --blanks--

`¿`

### --feedback--

This is the opening question mark.

---

`¡`

### --feedback--

This is the opening exclamation point.
