---
id: 685c0f39010fd807142e568b
title: Task 22
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-22
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`given`, `I still think`, `Why don't we`, `I see`, `we need to`, and `not sure`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Brian: Hey, Sarah, BLANK prioritize the new features for the next release. I think we should focus on the mobile app version.`

`Sarah: I'm BLANK I agree with that, Brian. The web app needs attention. It has more users. Prioritizing the web app makes more sense BLANK its larger user base.`

`Brian: Well, here's what I think we could do. BLANK allocate resources to both platforms equally? We could give equal priority to both the web app and the mobile app.`

`Sarah: BLANK we should dedicate more time to the web app, but BLANK where you're coming from, Brian. I think we can try giving equal priority for a while.`

`Brian: Good. Thanks for your support.`

## --blanks--

`we need to`

### --feedback--

Used to say that something is necessary to do.

---

`not sure`

### --feedback--

Not certain or not having a clear answer.

---

`given`

### --feedback--

Considering or based on a certain fact or situation.

---

`Why don't we`

### --feedback--

A polite way to make a suggestion. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`I still think`

### --feedback--

Used to repeat your opinion, even if others don't agree.

---

`I see`

### --feedback--

Used to show that you understand something.
