---
id: 6633a64567c725a05a94b68f
title: Task 45
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-45
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Sophia: Think of variables as containers you can fill and empty, and constants as locked boxes that keep the same contents.
-->

# --description--

In this task, you'll explore the metaphorical use of terms to understand programming concepts. Metaphors are a powerful way to visualize and explain complex ideas by relating them to everyday objects or actions.

`Container` is used metaphorically to describe variables as things that can hold and store different data, much like how a `container` can hold different items.

The actions `fill and empty` describe how you can add or remove data from variables, similar to how you might `fill` a water bottle or pour the water out.

`Locked boxes` describes constants as secure, unchangeable `containers`, emphasizing they can't be changed once set.

The phrase `keep the same contents` highlights that the data in constants does not change, like a box that is locked and always holds the same things inside.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Think of variables as _ you can _ and _, and constants as _ boxes that keep the same _ .`

## --blanks--

`containers`

### --feedback--

It metaphorically represent variables, emphasizing their ability to hold various types of data that can be changed over time.

---

`fill`

### --feedback--

It describes adding data to variables.

---

`empty`

### --feedback--

It is the process of removing data from variables.

---

`locked`

### --feedback--

It emphasizes that constants are secure and cannot be changed once they are set, similar to a box with a lock.

---

`contents`

### --feedback--

It refers to the data held within constants, which remains the same throughout the program.
