guide/english/csharp/interface/index.md, before:

---
title: Interface
---
---
An interface is similar to a class or struct but without implementation for its members.
An interface declares a contract or a behavior that implementing classes should have.
It may declare only properties, methods and events with NO access modifiers.

All the declared members must be implemented in the inharit class, otherwise will have an compile error.
as a convention we will mark interface with the letter I at the begenning (IMyInterface || IUserOptions).
You define an interface by using the interface keyword.

All members of an interface are:
implicitly abstract,
implicitly public, cannot declare an access modifier such as protected, internal private etc...

An Interface can:
* Inherit from other interfaces.
* Inherit from multiple interfaces at the same time
* Contain only methods, properties, events, and indexers.

An Interface can not :
* Inherit from a class.
* Have implementation.
* Have access modifiers other than public.
* Be instantiated.
---

Using interfaces allows us to change our implementation in our project without breaking other parts,
and only have to change the one place where the object is created.

Interface Example:
```csharp
public Interface IUserFavoriteFood
{
  void AddFood();
  Task<User> EatFavoriteFood(int id);
}
```
---
Interface inheritance and implementation:
```csharp
public class UserHungry : IUserFavoriteFood
{
  public AddFood()
  {
    // Implementation:
    // A method to add food.
  }

  public Task<User> EatFavoriteFood(int id)
  {
    // Implementation:
    // A method to Eat food by id.
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Added a few lines to emphasize Interfaces importance to Design patterns.

guide/english/csharp/interface/index.md, after:

---
title: Interface
---
---
An interface is similar to a class or struct but without implementation for its members.
An interface declares a contract or a behavior that implementing classes should have.
It may declare only properties, methods and events with NO access modifiers.

All the declared members must be implemented in the inharit class, otherwise will have an compile error.
as a convention we will mark interface with the letter I at the begenning (IMyInterface || IUserOptions).
You define an interface by using the interface keyword.

All members of an interface are:
implicitly abstract,
implicitly public, cannot declare an access modifier such as protected, internal private etc...

An Interface can:
* Inherit from other interfaces.
* Inherit from multiple interfaces at the same time
* Contain only methods, properties, events, and indexers.

An Interface can not :
* Inherit from a class.
* Have implementation.
* Have access modifiers other than public.
* Be instantiated.
---

Using interfaces allows us to change our implementation in our project without breaking other parts,
and only have to change the one place where the object is created. As interfacesdoes not implement any logic with in itself, it is a great tool for programmers to program against a type rather than a concrete object. Which is very useful to keeping a code loosely coupled. This behavior of interfaces made them imparative for implementation of Design patterns.

Interface Example:
```csharp
public Interface IUserFavoriteFood
{
  void AddFood();
  Task<User> EatFavoriteFood(int id);
}
```
---

Interface inheritance and implementation:
```csharp
public class UserHungry : IUserFavoriteFood
{
  public AddFood()
  {
    // Implementation:
    // A method to add food.
  }

  public Task<User> EatFavoriteFood(int id)
  {
    // Implementation:
    // A method to Eat food by id.
  }
}
```
