---
id: 68569c663b25400f03a3f498
title: Task 146
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-146
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`commitment`, `motivations`, `sense of`, `work on`, `amount of`, `no longer`, and `transparency`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Tom: Hey, Sophie, what motivates you to BLANK open-source software projects in your free time?`

`Sophie: Well, I love contributing to open-source projects! I really like the BLANK community and collaboration. It's incredible how people from around the world come together to create something amazing.`

`Tom: Yeah. I checked out some open-source projects, but I admit that I have problems with the BLANK time it can take to contribute. Sometimes, it can be so time-consuming.`

`Sophie: I understand, Tom. It can be a BLANK. But I can't stand seeing this great software being private. Open source is all about transparency and accessibility, and that's something I truly believe in.`

`Tom: Yeah, BLANK is a strong motivator for many developers. For me, I like the idea of practicing my skills and getting recognition for my contributions. It's a fantastic way to show what you're capable of.`

`Sophie: Also, when software becomes obsolete because it's BLANK maintained, there isn't much you can do to save it. With open source, there's always a chance for continuous improvement.`

`Tom: That's true. The sustainability of open-source projects is something I'm growing to appreciate more. Thanks for sharing your BLANK. I think I'll see if I can find a project to dedicate some spare time to.`

## --blanks--

`work on`

### --feedback--

This means to spend time trying to improve or complete something.

---

`sense of`

### --feedback--

This phrase means a strong feeling or understanding of something.

---

`amount of`

### --feedback--

This means how much of something there is.

---

`commitment`

### --feedback--

This means being dedicated and willing to give time and effort to something.

---

`transparency`

### --feedback--

This means being open and honest, not hiding anything.

---

`no longer`

### --feedback--

This means something that used to happen, but does not happen now.

---

`motivations`

### --feedback--

These are the reasons why someone wants to do something.
