---
id: 685699e764bba10bcf0cd5f4
title: Task 69
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-69
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`Dealing with`, `demotivated`, `frustrating`, `support`, `for no reason`, `instead of`, and `annoys`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Alice: Hi Tom, you look a bit down these days. Is everything okay?`

`Tom: Hey Alice, yeah, I feel a bit BLANK. One thing that really gets to me is working long hours without any breaks. It's exhausting, and it feels like I'm constantly running without knowing where I'm going.`

`Alice: I totally get that, Tom. Working overtime all the time can be draining. Personally, I hate dealing with office politics. It's frustrating when people are constantly trying to beat each other BLANK working together as a team.`

`Tom: You're right, Alice. BLANK office politics is never fun. Another thing that gets to me is having too many meetings. Sometimes, it feels like we're meeting BLANK, and it's hard to find time to actually work on projects.`

`Alice: I hear you, Tom. Sitting in meetings for hours can be discouraging. For me, what really BLANK me is having to do a bunch of repetitive tasks without any variation. It feels like I'm wasting my skills and creativity.`

`Tom: That does sound BLANK, Alice. Repeating the same tasks over and over can be demotivating. Thanks for listening, by the way. It feels good to talk about these things.`

`Alice: Of course, Tom. We all have our moments of demotivation, and it's good to share and BLANK each other.`

## --blanks--

`demotivated`

### --feedback--

This means feeling like you don't want to do something anymore.

---

`instead of`

### --feedback--

This phrase means choosing one thing and not the other.

---

`Dealing with`

### --feedback--

This means doing something to fix or manage a situation.

---

`for no reason`

### --feedback--

This means something happens without a clear or known cause.

---

`annoys`

### --feedback--

This verb means to make someone a little angry or bothered.

---

`frustrating`

### --feedback--

This describes something that makes you feel upset because it's not going the way you want.

---

`support`

### --feedback--

As a verb, it means to help or show that you agree with someone or something.
