---
id: 68569bf2a1251a0e84cf8ae4
title: Task 116
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-116
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`enthusiasm`, `passion`, `the most`, `gadgets`, `these days`, and `connected`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Bob: Hey, Sarah, do you know what really gets me excited about tech? It's all those amazing BLANK!`

`Sarah: I can see your BLANK, Bob! Tell me, which tech gadgets are your absolute favorites?`

`Bob: Well, one of my favorite gadgets is the smartwatch. I love how it keeps me BLANK, tracks my health, and even helps me stay organized with reminders and notifications.`

`Sarah: Smartwatches are cool. I'm more into smartphones. The camera quality, the speed, and the number of apps available are what I like BLANK.`

`Bob: Oh, smartphones are fantastic too, Sarah. Gadgets like these are transforming our daily lives. But you know what my obsession is BLANK? Drones! I love capturing stunning aerial shots and exploring new angles for photography.`

`Sarah: Drones are an open door for exciting possibilities, Bob. Your BLANK for tech gadgets is contagious. It's amazing how these innovations keep making our lives more interesting and connected.`

## --blanks--

`gadgets`

### --feedback--

Small electronic tools like phones or smartwatches.

---

`enthusiasm`

### --feedback--

A strong feeling of excitement and interest in something.

---

`connected`

### --feedback--

This means being in touch or in communication with others.

---

`the most`

### --feedback--

Used to show the highest level or amount of something.

---

`these days`

### --feedback--

This means now or in the present time.

---

`passion`

### --feedback--

A strong love or interest in doing something.
