---
id: 68569b11df2be30cffc397a1
title: Task 93
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-93
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`thrilling`, `opportunity to`, `interested in`, `exciting`, `motivation`, and `with confidence`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Brian: Hey Lisa, what motivated you to choose a career in tech?`

`Lisa: One of my main motivations was the financial stability that tech jobs can provide. It allows me to plan for my future BLANK. In other fields, it's much more difficult to achieve this stability.`

`Brian: Financial stability is certainly important, Lisa. For me, it was the BLANK collaborate with experts from many fields and have different perspectives.`

`Lisa: Collaborating with diverse teams can be BLANK, Brian. Another thing was the chance to be part of projects that push the limits of innovation and creativity.`

`Brian: I'm with you on that one. I'm also BLANK the flexibility that tech roles offer. They allow us to balance our jobs with personal interests and hobbies.`

`Lisa: Yeah. Also, the satisfaction of solving complex problems and finding practical solutions is really BLANK.`

`Brian: Knowing that we solved problems is really exciting, Lisa. I hope we keep getting as much BLANK from it as we can.`

## --blanks--

`with confidence`

### --feedback--

This means doing something without fear or doubt.

---

`opportunity to`

### --feedback--

This means having a chance to do something.

---

`exciting`

### --feedback--

This describes something that makes you feel happy and full of energy.

---

`interested in`

### --feedback--

This means you want to know more about something or enjoy it.

---

`thrilling`

### --feedback--

This means very exciting or full of strong feelings.

---

`motivation`

### --feedback--

This is the reason why someone wants to do something or work hard.
