---
id: 657cb542baf74594933c7ac9
title: Task 41
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-41
---

# --description--

When you are curious about someone's physical appearance, such as their hair color, height, or general appearance, you could use the sentence `What does (he/she) look like?`

For example: If you hear that a new programmer joined your team but you haven't met them, you can ask your colleague, `What does (he/she) look like?`

You want to know if they are tall, have short hair, or wear glasses, so you can recognize them in the office.

**Note:** Remember that questions about a person's appearance can be sensitive. Some people may not feel comfortable discussing physical traits, and it's important to respect their feelings. Always use this question politely and in the right context, where it is appropriate to do so.


# --question--

## --text--

Choose the option that best explains when it is appropriate to ask about someone's physical appearance.

## --answers--

Any time you are curious about how a person looks.

### --feedback--

Remember to consider the feelings of others and the situation. Asking about someone's appearance should have a clear and respectful purpose.

---

When you need to identify someone you are meeting for the first time.

---

During casual conversations.

### --feedback--

Remember to consider the feelings of others and the situation. Asking about someone's appearance should have a clear and respectful purpose.

---

During a meeting.

### --feedback--

Remember to consider the feelings of others and the situation. Asking about someone's appearance should have a clear and respectful purpose.

## --video-solution--

2
