guide/english/python/while-loop-statements/index.md, before:

---
title: While Loop Statements
---
## While Loop Statements

<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->

Python utilizes the `while` loop similarly to other popular languages.  The `while` loop evaluates a condition then executes a block of code if the condition is true. The block of code executes repeatedly until the condition becomes false.

The basic syntax is:

```python
counter = 0
while counter < 10:
   # Execute the block of code here as
   # long as counter is less than 10
```

An example is shown below:
```python
days = 0    
week = ['Monday', 'Tuesday', 'Wednesday', 'Thursday', 'Friday', 'Saturday', 'Sunday']
while days < 7:
   print("Today is " + week[days])
   days += 1
```

Output:

```
Today is Monday
Today is Tuesday
Today is Wednesday
Today is Thursday
Today is Friday
Today is Saturday
Today is Sunday
```
Line-by-Line Explanation of the above CODE:
1. the variable 'days' is set to a value 0.
2. a variable week is assigned to a list containing all the days of the week.
3. while loop starts 
4. the block of code will be executed until the condition returns 'true'.
5. the condition is 'days<7' which rougly says run the while loop till the point the variable days is less than 7
6. So when the days=7 the while loop stops executing.
7. the days variable gets updated on every iteration.
8. When the while loop runs for the first time the line 'Today is Monday' is printed onto the console and the variable days becomes equal to 1.
9. Since the variable days is equal to 1 which is less than 7 so the while loop is executed again.
10. It goes on again and again and when the console prints 'Today is Sunday' the variable days is now equal to 7 and the while loop stops executing. 

#### More Information:

- <a href='https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#the-while-statement' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Python `while` statement documentation</a>

Commit message:

Practical example of a while loop
Added a practical example of the benefits of a while loop being a condition controlled loop

guide/english/python/while-loop-statements/index.md, after:

---
title: While Loop Statements
---
## While Loop Statements

<!-- Please add any articles you think might be helpful to read before writing the article -->

Python utilizes the `while` loop similarly to other popular languages.  The `while` loop evaluates a condition then executes a block of code if the condition is true. The block of code executes repeatedly until the condition becomes false.

The basic syntax is:

```python
counter = 0
while counter < 10:
   # Execute the block of code here as
   # long as counter is less than 10
```

An example is shown below:
```python
days = 0    
week = ['Monday', 'Tuesday', 'Wednesday', 'Thursday', 'Friday', 'Saturday', 'Sunday']
while days < 7:
   print("Today is " + week[days])
   days += 1
```

Output:

```
Today is Monday
Today is Tuesday
Today is Wednesday
Today is Thursday
Today is Friday
Today is Saturday
Today is Sunday
```
Line-by-Line Explanation of the above CODE:
1. the variable 'days' is set to a value 0.
2. a variable week is assigned to a list containing all the days of the week.
3. while loop starts 
4. the block of code will be executed until the condition returns 'true'.
5. the condition is 'days<7' which rougly says run the while loop till the point the variable days is less than 7
6. So when the days=7 the while loop stops executing.
7. the days variable gets updated on every iteration.
8. When the while loop runs for the first time the line 'Today is Monday' is printed onto the console and the variable days becomes equal to 1.
9. Since the variable days is equal to 1 which is less than 7 so the while loop is executed again.
10. It goes on again and again and when the console prints 'Today is Sunday' the variable days is now equal to 7 and the while loop stops executing. 

Because while loops are conditioned controlled loops, while loops are great for programs that need to be run for an undefined amount of times. This allows for input to be taken time and time again until the condition is met. A good practical example would be for a game in which the player has the option to try again. Until the player responds with the response that meets the while loop condition, the player can continue to play the game, simulating the loop as many times as they please.

#### More Information:

- <a href='https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#the-while-statement' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Python `while` statement documentation</a>
