---
id: 6724e387ee098d1ef33108ba
title: Bash Commands Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-bash-commands
---

# --description--

Review the concepts below to prepare for the upcoming quiz.

## Interact with the terminal

- `pwd` command: use the `pwd` command to get the path of the current folder.

  ```bash
  > pwd
  /home/user/folder/other_folder
  ```

- `echo` command: use the `echo` command to write to the terminal.

  ```bash
  > echo hello
  hello
  ```

- `exit` command: use the `exit` command to close the terminal.
- `clear` command: use the `clear` command to clear everything written in the terminal.
- `--help` flag: you can use the `--help` flag with any command to see infos related to that command, the syntax is `<command> --help`.

  For example you can use it with `pwd`:

  ```bash
  > pwd --help
  pwd: pwd [-LP]
      Print the name of the current working directory.
      
      Options:
        -L        print the value of $PWD if it names the current working
                  directory
        -P        print the physical directory, without any symbolic links
      
      By default, `pwd' behaves as if `-L' were specified.
      
      Exit Status:
      Returns 0 unless an invalid option is given or the current directory
      cannot be read.
  ```

## Investigate the files

- `ls` command: the `ls` command will show the content of the current folder. You can specify a folder path to show the content of a different folder: `ls <folder_path>`. You can use different flags for this command:
  - `-l` flag: using the command as `ls -l` the files are shown in a table format with more infos related to permissions, filesize and file creator.
  - `-a` or `--all` flag: when you use the command as `ls -a` or `ls --all` it will show all the files, including hidden files.
  - you can combine the two flags with `ls -al` and it will show all files in a table format.
- `more` command: you can use this command giving it a filename, like `more <filename>` and it will show the content of that file
- `find` command: the `find` command lists the files in this folder and descendant folders.

  ```bash
  > find
  .
  ./filename
  ./folder
  ./folder/filename
  ```

  - you can use the `-name` flag, and it will list only files and folders that match the given name: `find -name <filename>`:
  
  ```bash
  > find -name lato
  ./lato
  ```

## Navigate between folders

- `cd` command: you can use the `cd` command to move to a different folder writing `cd <foldername>`. You can also write a path to move folder: `cd ./foldername1/foldername2` would move you to the folder named `foldername2`.
  - `..` in paths: the two dots in paths refer to the parent folder. You can use it alone (`cd ..`), or to create more complex paths (`cd ../../foldername`).
  - `.` in paths: the single dot in paths refer to the current folder. You can use it or not, so using `cd ./foldername` or `cd foldername` is equivalent, and both would move the location inside the folder `foldername`.

## Create and delete

- `mkdir` command: you can use the `mkdir` command to create a folder: `mkdir new_folder` creates a folder named `new_folder`.
- `touch` command: the `touch` commands creates new files, you can write `touch filename` to create a file named `filename`.
- `rmdir` command: you can write `rmdir <directory_name>` to delete `<directory_name>`, it will work only if `<directory_name>` is empty.
- `rm` command: the `rm` command is used to delete a file, write `rm filename` to delete the file `filename`.
  - `-r` flag: you can use the `-r` flag to delete a folder and all its content. `rm -r <folder>` will delete `<folder>` and everything in it.
- `cp` command: the `cp` command copies a file, write `cp <file> <destination>` to copy `<file>` inside `<destination>` folder.
  - `-r` flag: the `-r` flag allows to copy a folder and all its content, write `cp -r <folder_to_copy> <name_of_copy>` to copy `<folder_to_copy>` and give to the copy the name `<name_of_copy>`.
- `mkdir` commad: the `mkdir` command is used to create a new folder, write `mkdir <new_folder>` to create a new folder. You can also use `mkdir <parent_folder>/<new_folder>` to create `new_folder` inside `parent_folder`.

## Move and rename

- `mv` command: you can use `mv` to move a file between folders, or rename a file:
  - you can use `mv <filename> <new_filename>` to rename `<filename>` to `<new_filename>`.
  - you can use `mv <file> <destination>` to move `<file>` to the folder `<destination>`.

## Save terminal output in a file

- `>>`: you can add `>> filename` after a command to append the output to a file, for example. `echo hello >> filename` instead of printing to the terminal, would add `hello` in a new line at the end of file `filename`.

# --assignment--

Review the Bash Commands topics and concepts.
