---
id: 685d7a22363c58163423c6c2
title: Task 34
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-34
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`practical experience`, `roles`, `achievements`, `worked at`, `collaborative effort`, and `computer science`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Anna: Hello. Thanks for coming in today. Could you tell me about your previous BLANK and responsibilities?`

`Second Candidate: Hello! Certainly. I BLANK Mock Corporation for five years. I was part of a team of software engineers, and we were responsible for developing and maintaining various applications. Our primary focus was creating user-friendly software.`

`Anna: That's great to hear. Were the members of the team involved in any specific BLANK or projects?`

`Second Candidate: Yes. Our team was involved in a project to redesign the company's website. We were responsible for implementing new features and ensuring that the website had fast performance. It was a BLANK and we were able to deliver the project on time.`

`Anna: Excellent. Can you share details about your educational background? Were you trained in a specific field?`

`Second Candidate: Yes. I have a master's degree in BLANK. My studies were intensive, and I was introduced to many different methodologies.`

`Anna: Impressive. We appreciate candidates with strong educational backgrounds and BLANK. Thanks a lot for coming to the interview.`

## --blanks--

`roles`

### --feedback--

The jobs or responsibilities someone has in a team or company.

---

`worked at`

### --feedback--

Had a job in a company or organization in the past.

---

`achievements`

### --feedback--

Things you have done successfully, especially after hard work.

---

`collaborative effort`

### --feedback--

Work done together by a group of people to reach a goal.

---

`computer science`

### --feedback--

The study of how computers work and how to write programs.

---

`practical experience`

### --feedback--

Real-world practice doing something, not just learning from books.
