---
id: 685d7ae2d6435316f643723e
title: Task 97
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-97
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Write the following words or phrases in the correct spot:

`HR role`, `end up`, `after college`, `related to`, `interest in`, and `course in`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Tom: Hey! I've been curious about your background. How did you BLANK as a tech recruiter?`

`Anna: Hey! It's an interesting story. I actually studied psychology in college. My plan was to become a therapist or counselor. But during my last year, I took a BLANK organizational psychology, and it piqued my BLANK the workplace and employee dynamics.`

`Tom: That's a cool twist. Did you immediately start working as a tech recruiter BLANK?`

`Anna: Not right away. I worked in a general BLANK at a non-tech company first, focusing on training and development.`

`Tom: What made you make the jump to tech?`

`Anna: I saw that tech companies appreciate innovation and care for the employees' well-being. This is directly BLANK what made me want to become a psychologist. So basically, that's what brought me here.`

`Tom: Awesome. It was great to get to know you better.`

## --blanks--

`end up`

### --feedback--

To finally be in a place or situation, often not planned.

---

`course in`

### --feedback--

A class where you learn about a subject, like math or programming.

---

`interest in`

### --feedback--

Wanting to know more about or be involved in something.

---

`after college`

### --feedback--

The time when you finish university or higher education.

---

`HR role`

### --feedback--

A job in `Human Resources`, working with hiring, training, or helping employees.

---

`related to`

### --feedback--

Connected with or having something to do with another thing.
