---
id: 66179829f664e3ee9b42ce5f
title: Task 16
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-16
---

<!--
AUDIO REFERENCE:
Sarah: I'm not sure I agree with that, Brian. The web app needs attention. It has more users. Prioritizing the web app makes more sense given its larger user base.
Brian: Well, here’s what I think we could do. Why don’t we allocate resources to both platforms equally? We could give equal priority to both the web app and the mobile app.
-->

# --description--

This task focuses on understanding Brian's response to Sarah's proposal about prioritizing the web app. 

Recognizing agreement, disagreement, or `compromise` is crucial in professional communication, especially in discussions related to project priorities.

`Compromise` means finding a middle way between two different ideas or wishes. It's like making a deal where each person agrees to give up something to get something else they want. For example, if two friends want to eat out, but one wants pizza and the other wants burgers, a `compromise` might be choosing a restaurant that serves both.

In simple work situations, `compromise` helps people work together better. Imagine two colleagues planning a presentation. One wants to use a lot of pictures, and the other prefers more words. A `compromise` might be to use some pictures and some words. This way, both ideas are used.

`Neither` is used to deny or refute two options or possibilities. For example, `Neither the marketing strategy nor the sales approach was effective` means that both strategies were not effective.

# --question--

## --text--

Does Brian agree with Sarah's proposal to prioritize the web app?

## --answers--

Yes, he completely agrees and wants to focus only on the web app.

### --feedback--

This choice is incorrect. Brian suggests a `compromise` by equally allocating resources to both platforms, not solely focusing on the web app.

---

No, he disagrees and suggests focusing only on the mobile app instead.

### --feedback--

Brian's response is not a direct disagreement; he proposes a balanced approach rather than focusing solely on the mobile app.

---

Neither, he proposes a compromise by equally prioritizing both platforms.

---

He agrees but suggests postponing the decision for later.

### --feedback--

Brian's suggestion is immediate and specific about equal resource allocation, not postponing the decision.

## --video-solution--

3
