---
id: 671a872c17382a582e455c4c
title: HTML Tables and Forms Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-html-tables-and-forms
---

# --description--

Review the concepts below to prepare for the upcoming quiz.

## HTML Form Elements and Attributes

- **`form` element**: used to create an HTML form for user input.
- **`action` attribute**: used to specify the URL where the form data should be sent.
- **`method` attribute**: used to specify the HTTP method to use when sending the form data. The most common methods are `GET` and `POST`.

```html
<form method="value-goes-here" action="url-goes-here">
  <!-- inputs go inside here -->
</form>
```

- **`input` element**: used to create an input field for user input.
- **`type` attribute**: used to specify the type of input field. Ex. `text`, `email`, `number`, `radio`, `checkbox`, etc.
- **`placeholder` attribute**: used to show a hint to the user to show them what to enter in the input field.
- **`value` attribute**: used to specify the value of the input. If the input has a `button` type, the `value` attribute can be used to set the button text.
- **`size` attribute**: used to define the number of characters that should be visible as the user types into the input.
- **`min` attribute**: can be used input types such as `number` to specify the minimum value allowed in the input field.
- **`max` attribute**: can be used input types such as `number` to specify the maximum value allowed in the input field.
- **`minlength` attribute**: used to specify the minimum number of characters required in an input field.
- **`maxlength` attribute**: used to specify the maximum number of characters allowed in an input field.
- **`required` attribute**: used to specify that an input field must be filled out before submitting the form.
- **`disabled` attribute**: used to specify that an input field should be disabled.
- **`readonly` attribute**: used to specify that an input field is read-only.

```html
<!-- Text input -->
<input 
  type="text"
  id="name"
  name="name"
  placeholder="e.g. Quincy Larson" 
  size="20"
  minlength="5"
  maxlength="30"
  required
/>

<!-- Number input -->
<input 
  type="number"
  id="quantity"
  name="quantity"
  min="2"
  max="10"
  disabled
/>

<!-- Button -->
<input type="button" value="Show Alert" />
```

- **`label` element**: used to create a label for an input field.
- **`for` attribute**: used to specify which input field the label is for.
- **Implicit form association**: inputs can be associated with labels by wrapping the input field inside the `label` element.

```html
<form action="">
  <label>
    Full Name:
    <input type="text" />
  </label>
</form>
```

- **Explicit form association**: inputs can be associated with labels by using the `for` attribute on the `label` element.

```html
<form action="">
  <label for="email">Email Address: </label>
  <input type="email" id="email" />
</form>
```

- **`button` element**: used to create a clickable button. A button can also have a `type` attribute, which is used to control the behavior of the button when it is activated. Ex. `submit`, `reset`, `button`.

```html
<button type="button">Show Form</button>
<button type="submit">Submit Form</button>
<button type="reset">Reset Form</button>
```

- **`fieldset` element**: used to group related inputs together.
- **`legend` element**: used to add a caption to describe the group of inputs.

```html
<!-- Radio group -->
<fieldset>
  <legend>Was this your first time at our hotel?</legend>

  <label for="yes-option">Yes</label>
  <input id="yes-option" type="radio" name="hotel-stay" />

  <label for="no-option">No</label>
  <input id="no-option" type="radio" name="hotel-stay" />
</fieldset>

<!-- Checkbox group -->
<fieldset>
  <legend>
    Why did you choose to stay at our hotel? (Check all that apply)
  </legend>

  <label for="location">Location</label>
  <input type="checkbox" id="location" name="location" value="location" />

  <label for="price">Price</label>
  <input type="checkbox" id="price" name="price" value="price" />
</fieldset>
```

- **Focused state**: this is the state of an input field when it is selected by the user.

## Working with HTML Table Elements and Attributes

- **Table element**: used to create an HTML table.
- **Table Head (`thead`) element**: used to group the header content in an HTML table.
- **Table Row (`tr`) element**: used to create a row in an HTML table.
- **Table Header (`th`) element**: used to create a header cell in an HTML table.
- **Table body (`tbody`) element**: used to group the body content in an HTML table.
- **Table Data Cell (`td`) element**: used to create a data cell in an HTML table.
- **Table Foot (`tfoot`) element**: used to group the footer content in an HTML table.
- **`caption` element**: used to add a title of an HTML table.
- **`colspan` attribute**: used to specify the number of columns a table cell should span.

```html
<table>
  <caption>Exam Grades</caption>

  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Last Name</th>
      <th>First Name</th>
      <th>Grade</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Davis</td>
      <td>Alex</td>
      <td>54</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>Doe</td>
      <td>Samantha</td>
      <td>92</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>Rodriguez</td>
      <td>Marcus</td>
      <td>88</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>

  <tfoot>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">Average Grade</td>
      <td>78</td>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
</table>
```

## Working with HTML Tools

- **HTML validator**: a tool that checks the syntax of HTML code to ensure it is valid.
- **DOM inspector**: a tool that allows you to inspect and modify the HTML structure of a web page.
- **Devtools**: a set of web developer tools built directly into the browser that helps you debug, profile, and analyze web pages.

# --assignment--

Review the HTML Tables and Forms topics and concepts.
