---
id: 695b906494aa8d03c39ec2db
title: What Is Data Visualization?
challengeType: 19
dashedName: what-is-data-visualization
---

# --description--

Every industry, from music to healthcare, works with large and often complex datasets. These can include patient medical records, playlist trends over time, or social media engagement metrics. To make sense of this information, businesses use a variety of tools to help their teams analyze data and make informed decisions about their products and services. One of the most powerful tools for understanding and communicating this data is **data visualization**.

Data visualization creates clear, visual formats from complex data. Examples of these types of visuals include pie charts, scatter plots, bar charts, and more. Good visualizations help businesses save time identifying key information, trends, and relationships in the data.

There are many popular data visualization tools used in business including Microsoft Excel, Power BI, Google Charts, and Tableau. In these upcoming lessons and workshops, however, you’ll learn how to create interactive visualizations using the D3.js JavaScript library. The goal of this module is to introduce you to the fundamentals of data visualization, and guide you through building your own visualizations with JavaScript.

## Comprehension Check Questions

Question 1:

What is data visualization?

A. A method for storing large datasets in cloud storage platforms.

B. A technique used to encrypt data for secure transmission.

C. A process of creating clear, visual formats from complex data.

D. A programming language used exclusively for statistical analysis.

Hint: Think about how visuals can help teams understand complex data.

Answer: C

Question 2:

Which of the following is NOT an example of a commonly used data visualization tool?

A. Microsoft Excel (and Power BI)

B. PyCharm

C. Google Charts

D. Tableau

Hint: The wrong option is a commonly used Python IDE.

Answer: B

Question 3:

Which of the following is a commonly used JavaScript library for creating data visualizations?

A. Django

B. D3

C. NumPy

D. Keras

Hint: Review the last part of the lesson for the answer.

Answer: B
