---
id: 65e93be2cbc1da18d7602a31
title: Task 35
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-35
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`comments`, `clarify`, `comment on`, `describe`, `double slashes`, and `parts of`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Sophie: I'm working on this code and I think it's a good idea to add BLANK. How should I write comments in the code?`

`Brian: Great idea. To write comments, you simply need to use BLANK to start a comment. Then, you can BLANK what the code does so that other people can understand it, too.`

`Sophie: And what should I BLANK? Are there any specific things I should focus on?`

`Brian: You should comment on any complex or tricky BLANK your code. You can also explain what certain functions do and BLANK the purpose of variables. Try to ensure that your comments are clear and concise.`

`Sophie: I appreciate your help. I'll start adding comments to the code.`

## --blanks--

`comments`

### --feedback--

Notes in the code that explain what it does. The computer skips them.

---

`double slashes`

### --feedback--

Typing `//` starts a comment in many programming languages.

---

`describe`

### --feedback--

To explain what something is or what it does.

---

`comment on`

### --feedback--

To write a note or give your opinion about something.

---

`parts of`

### --feedback--

Different sections or pieces of something.

---

`clarify`

### --feedback--

To make something easier to understand.
