---
id: 6556bc95e6ce5d850d37dd07
title: Task 3
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-3
lang: en-US
---

# --description--

Adjectives describe or provide more information about nouns or pronouns. They usually come before the noun they describe. For example:

- `Her older sister is a programmer.` — The adjective `older` describes the noun `sister`. Notice how the adjective `older` comes before the noun.

- `He joined an international company.` — The adjective `international` gives more information about the noun `company`.

- `He has a quick shower in the morning.` - The adjective `quick` describes how short the shower is.

Adjectives can also make language more expressive by giving details about a person, place, or thing. For example, instead of saying `It seems like you have a lot of energy this morning`, you could say `You look energetic this morning`. Here, the adjective `energetic` is more concise and expressive, showing that someone has a lot of energy in a positive way.

# --questions--

## --text--

In the sentence `You look energetic this morning`, what does `energetic` suggest about the person?

## --answers--

That the person is feeling unwell.

### --feedback--

`Energetic` is a positive word. It does not describe someone who is sick or unwell.

---

That the person seems like they have a lot of energy.

---

That the person is uncomfortable.

### --feedback--

`Energetic` is not about comfort. It describes having strength and activity.

---

That the person is late.

### --feedback--

`Energetic` does not relate to time. It is about how much energy a person has.

## --video-solution--

2
