guide/english/mathematics/area-of-a-square/index.md, before:

---
title: Area of a Square
---

## Area of a Square

A square is a quadrilateral with identical sides.

The area of a square can be calculated either from the length of the side, or from the length of the diagonal.

![Square](https://github.com/viso-gio/HostedImages/blob/master/square.jpg?raw=true)

If the side *a* is known:

![Formula1](https://github.com/viso-gio/HostedImages/blob/master/AreaSquare1.png?raw=true)

If the diagonal *d* is known:

![Formula2](https://github.com/viso-gio/HostedImages/blob/master/AreaSquare2.png?raw=true)

The relationship between side *a* and diagonal *d* is:

![Diagonal](https://github.com/viso-gio/HostedImages/blob/master/DiagonalSquare.png?raw=true)

### Terminology

Diagonal - the distance from opposite corners of a square. The corners are 90-degrees.

Perimeter - the sum of the length of four sides in a square. The four sides are equal in a square.

### Examples

1. Given length of one side of square is 8 units:

   Area = 8 x 8 = 64 units<sup>2</sup>
   
2. Given area of a square is 100 units<sup>2</sup>:

   Length = <span>&#8730;</span>100 = 10 units
   
3. Given diagonal of square is 25 units:

   Area = 10<sup>2</sup> / 2 = 50 units<sup>2</sup>
  
4. Given perimeter of a square is 20 units:

   Area = (20 / 4)<sup>2</sup> = 25  units<sup>2</sup>
   
  
  
Find the area of a square given the perimeter:

To find the area of a square given the perimeter, simply start by dividing the given perimeter by 4. Why 4? Because a square has four (4) sides. Dividing it by 4 would give you the length of one side. Now square the known side. To square, multiply it by itself once. Once you get the result, convert it to squared units; by adding a ² to the answer.

Ex: Perimeter: 20

20 / 4 = 5
5 x 5 = 25
25 = 25²

#### More Information:

- <a href='https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Square#Perimeter_and_area' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Wikipedia: Square</a>
- <a href='https://www.wikihow.com/Find-the-Area-of-a-Square' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>More Illustrations</a>- 
- <a href='https://sciencing.com/area-square-using-its-perimeter-7991359.html'>more</a>-

Commit message:

add different ways to get area of a square

guide/english/mathematics/area-of-a-square/index.md, after:

---
title: Area of a Square
---

## Area of a Square

A square is a quadrilateral with identical sides.

The area of a square can be calculated either from the length of the side, or from the length of the diagonal.

![Square](https://github.com/viso-gio/HostedImages/blob/master/square.jpg?raw=true)

If the side *a* is known:

![Formula1](https://github.com/viso-gio/HostedImages/blob/master/AreaSquare1.png?raw=true)

If the diagonal *d* is known:

![Formula2](https://github.com/viso-gio/HostedImages/blob/master/AreaSquare2.png?raw=true)

The relationship between side *a* and diagonal *d* is:

![Diagonal](https://github.com/viso-gio/HostedImages/blob/master/DiagonalSquare.png?raw=true)

### Terminology

Diagonal - the distance from opposite corners of a square. The corners are 90-degrees.

Perimeter - the sum of the length of four sides in a square. The four sides are equal in a square.

### Examples

1. Given length of one side of square is 8 units:

   Area = 8 x 8 = 64 units<sup>2</sup>
   
2. Given area of a square is 100 units<sup>2</sup>:

   Length = <span>&#8730;</span>100 = 10 units
   
3. Given diagonal of square is 25 units:

   Area = 10<sup>2</sup> / 2 = 50 units<sup>2</sup>
  
4. Given perimeter of a square is 20 units:

   Area = (20 / 4)<sup>2</sup> = 25  units<sup>2</sup>
   
  
  
Find the area of a square given the perimeter:

To find the area of a square given the perimeter, simply start by dividing the given perimeter by 4. Why 4? Because a square has four (4) sides. Dividing it by 4 would give you the length of one side. Now square the known side. To square, multiply it by itself once. Once you get the result, convert it to squared units; by adding a ² to the answer.

Ex: Perimeter: 20

20 / 4 = 5
5 x 5 = 25
25 = 25²


Another way to think of the area of a square is to think of it as two seperate right trangles with equal base and height lengths. For example, if you know how to find the area of the triangles (if b = base and h = height, then the formula is .5b/h), you can do that for each triangle and add them together, getting the total area of a sqaure.

#### More Information:

- <a href='https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Square#Perimeter_and_area' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>Wikipedia: Square</a>
- <a href='https://www.wikihow.com/Find-the-Area-of-a-Square' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>More Illustrations</a>- 
- <a href='https://sciencing.com/area-square-using-its-perimeter-7991359.html'>more</a>-
