guide/english/c/operators/index.md, before:

---
title: Operators
---
# Operators in C

## 1. Arithmetic Operators
- `+` Adds to operands (values) 
     ```C
     int a = 6;
     int c = a + 1; // c = 7
     ```
- `-`Subtracts the second operand from the first
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     int b = 9;
     int c = a - b; // c = -1
     ```
- `*` Multiplies two operands
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     int b = 9;
     int c = a * b; // c = 72
     ```
- `/` Divides the first operand by the second
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     int b = 4;
     int c = a / b; // c = 2
     ```
- `%` Gives the remainder after an integer division
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     int b = 9;
     int c = b % a; // c = 1 because b = 1*a + 1 = 8 + 1
     ```
- `++` Increases int value by one
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     a++; // a = 9
     int b = a++; // postfix operator; a = 10, b = 9
     int c = ++a; // prefix operator; a = 11, c = 11
     ```
- `--` Decreases int value by one
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     a--; // a = 7
     int b = a--; // postfix operator; a = 6, b = 7
     int c = --a; // prefix operator; a = 5, c = 5
     ```
// C Program to demonstrate the working of arithmetic operators
#include <stdio.h>
int main()
{
    int a = 9,b = 4, c;
    
    c = a+b;
    printf("a+b = %d \n",c);

    c = a-b;
    printf("a-b = %d \n",c);
    
    c = a*b;
    printf("a*b = %d \n",c);
    
    c=a/b;
    printf("a/b = %d \n",c);
    
    c=a%b;
    printf("Remainder when a divided by b = %d \n",c);
    
    return 0;
}

## 2. Relational Operators

- `==` Equal - true when the two operands are equal
  ```C
  int a = 5, b = 5;
  bool c = (a == b); // c = true
  ```
- `!=` Not equal - true when the two operands are NOT equal
  ```C
  int a = 5, b = 6;
  bool c = (a != b); // c = true
  ```
- `>` Greater than - True when first operand is bigger than the second.
  ```C
  int a = 8, b = 5;
  bool c = (a > b); // c = true
  ```
- `<` Less than - True when the first operand is smaller then the second.
  ```C
  int a = 5, b = 8;
  bool c = (a < b); // c = true
  ```
- `>=` Greater than or equal - True when the first operand is bigger, or equal to the second.
  ```C
  int a = 8, b = 5;
  bool c = (a >= b); // c = true
  bool d = (a >= 8); // d = true
  ```
- `<=` Less than or equal - True when the first operand is smaller or equal to the second.
  ```C
  int a = 5, b = 8;
  bool c = (a <= b); // c = true
  ```

## 3. Logical Operators

- `&&` AND operator - True when **both** of the operands are true.
  ```C
  bool c = (5 < 6) && (8!=7); // both operands true, therefore c = true
  ```
- `||` OR operator - True when either the first or the second operands are true (or both)
  ```C
  bool c = (5 < 6) || (8 == 7) // first operand is true, therefore c = true
  ```
- `!` NOT operator - True when the operand is false. 
  ```C
  bool c = !(8 == 7) // translate: NOT (false), therefore c = true
  ```

## 4. Bitwise Operators

- `&` AND operator - If at a place there is a bit in both operands, then it is copied to the result
  ```C
  A = 11001
  B = 01000
  RESULT = 01000
  ```
- `|` OR operator - If at a place there is a bit in either operands, then it is copied to the result
  ```C
  A = 11001
  B = 01000
  RESULT = 11001
  ```
- `^` XOR (exclusive OR) operator - If at a place there is a bit in one of the operands (not both), then it is copied to the result
  ```C
  A = 11001
  B = 01000
  RESULT = 10001
  ```
- `~` Negation operator - Reverses the bits. 1 -> 0, 0 -> 1
  ```C
  C = 01000
  RESULT = 10111
  ```
- `<<` Left shift operator - The left operand is moved left by as many bits, as the right operand
  ```C
  A = 11001
     A << 2
  RESULT = 00100
  ```
- `>>` Right shift operator - The left operand is moved right by as many bits, as the right operand
  ```C
  A = 11001
     A >> 2
  RESULT = 00110
  ```

## 5. Assignment Operators
- `=`
  ```C
  int a = 7; // 'a' is going to be equal to 7
  ```
- `+=`
  ```C
  int a = 7;
  a += 5; // equivalent to a = a + 5 = 7 + 5 = 12
  ```
- `-=`
  ```C
  int a = 7;
  a -= 2; // equivalent to a = a - 2 = 7 - 2 = 5
  ```
- `*=`
  ```C
  int a = 7;
  a *= 3; // equivalent to a = a * 3 = 7 * 3 = 21
  ```
- `/=`
  ```C
  int a = 21;
  a /= 3; // equivalent to a = a / 3 = 21 / 3 = 7
  ```
- `%=`  
  ```C
  int a = 21;
  a %= 5; // equivalent to a = a % 5 = 21 % 5 = 1
  ```
     
Misc Operators ↦ sizeof & ternary
Besides the operators discussed above, there are a few other important operators including sizeof and ? : supported by the C Language.

Operator	               Description	                                        Example
sizeof()	               Returns the size of a variable.	                    sizeof(a), where a is integer, will return 4.
&	                    Returns the address of a variable.	                    &a; returns the actual address of the variable.
*	                    Pointer to a variable.	                              *a;
? :	                    Conditional Expression.	                              If Condition is true ? then value X : otherwise value Y


## 6. Operator precedence in C
Operators with the highest precedence appear at the top of the list. Within an expression, operators
with higher precedence will be evaluated first.
- Postfix `() [] -> . ++ --`
- Unary `+ - ! ~ ++ -- (type)* & sizeof`
- Multiplicative `* / %`
- Additive `+ -`
- Shift `<< >>`
- Relational `< <= > >=`
- Equality `== !=`
- Bitwise AND `&`
- Bitwise XOR `^`
- Bitwise OR `|`
- Logical AND `&&`
- Logical OR `||`
- Conditional `?:`
- Assignment `= += -= *= /= %= >>= <<= &= ^= |=`
- Comma `,`

Commit message:

Associativity of operators
When two or more operators of the same precedence occur in an expression, associativity determines the order in which they must be evaluated.

guide/english/c/operators/index.md, after:

---
title: Operators
---
# Operators in C

## 1. Arithmetic Operators
- `+` Adds to operands (values) 
     ```C
     int a = 6;
     int c = a + 1; // c = 7
     ```
- `-`Subtracts the second operand from the first
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     int b = 9;
     int c = a - b; // c = -1
     ```
- `*` Multiplies two operands
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     int b = 9;
     int c = a * b; // c = 72
     ```
- `/` Divides the first operand by the second
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     int b = 4;
     int c = a / b; // c = 2
     ```
- `%` Gives the remainder after an integer division
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     int b = 9;
     int c = b % a; // c = 1 because b = 1*a + 1 = 8 + 1
     ```
- `++` Increases int value by one
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     a++; // a = 9
     int b = a++; // postfix operator; a = 10, b = 9
     int c = ++a; // prefix operator; a = 11, c = 11
     ```
- `--` Decreases int value by one
     ```C
     int a = 8;
     a--; // a = 7
     int b = a--; // postfix operator; a = 6, b = 7
     int c = --a; // prefix operator; a = 5, c = 5
     ```
// C Program to demonstrate the working of arithmetic operators
#include <stdio.h>
int main()
{
    int a = 9,b = 4, c;
    
    c = a+b;
    printf("a+b = %d \n",c);

    c = a-b;
    printf("a-b = %d \n",c);
    
    c = a*b;
    printf("a*b = %d \n",c);
    
    c=a/b;
    printf("a/b = %d \n",c);
    
    c=a%b;
    printf("Remainder when a divided by b = %d \n",c);
    
    return 0;
}

## 2. Relational Operators

- `==` Equal - true when the two operands are equal
  ```C
  int a = 5, b = 5;
  bool c = (a == b); // c = true
  ```
- `!=` Not equal - true when the two operands are NOT equal
  ```C
  int a = 5, b = 6;
  bool c = (a != b); // c = true
  ```
- `>` Greater than - True when first operand is bigger than the second.
  ```C
  int a = 8, b = 5;
  bool c = (a > b); // c = true
  ```
- `<` Less than - True when the first operand is smaller then the second.
  ```C
  int a = 5, b = 8;
  bool c = (a < b); // c = true
  ```
- `>=` Greater than or equal - True when the first operand is bigger, or equal to the second.
  ```C
  int a = 8, b = 5;
  bool c = (a >= b); // c = true
  bool d = (a >= 8); // d = true
  ```
- `<=` Less than or equal - True when the first operand is smaller or equal to the second.
  ```C
  int a = 5, b = 8;
  bool c = (a <= b); // c = true
  ```

## 3. Logical Operators

- `&&` AND operator - True when **both** of the operands are true.
  ```C
  bool c = (5 < 6) && (8!=7); // both operands true, therefore c = true
  ```
- `||` OR operator - True when either the first or the second operands are true (or both)
  ```C
  bool c = (5 < 6) || (8 == 7) // first operand is true, therefore c = true
  ```
- `!` NOT operator - True when the operand is false. 
  ```C
  bool c = !(8 == 7) // translate: NOT (false), therefore c = true
  ```

## 4. Bitwise Operators

- `&` AND operator - If at a place there is a bit in both operands, then it is copied to the result
  ```C
  A = 11001
  B = 01000
  RESULT = 01000
  ```
- `|` OR operator - If at a place there is a bit in either operands, then it is copied to the result
  ```C
  A = 11001
  B = 01000
  RESULT = 11001
  ```
- `^` XOR (exclusive OR) operator - If at a place there is a bit in one of the operands (not both), then it is copied to the result
  ```C
  A = 11001
  B = 01000
  RESULT = 10001
  ```
- `~` Negation operator - Reverses the bits. 1 -> 0, 0 -> 1
  ```C
  C = 01000
  RESULT = 10111
  ```
- `<<` Left shift operator - The left operand is moved left by as many bits, as the right operand
  ```C
  A = 11001
     A << 2
  RESULT = 00100
  ```
- `>>` Right shift operator - The left operand is moved right by as many bits, as the right operand
  ```C
  A = 11001
     A >> 2
  RESULT = 00110
  ```

## 5. Assignment Operators
- `=`
  ```C
  int a = 7; // 'a' is going to be equal to 7
  ```
- `+=`
  ```C
  int a = 7;
  a += 5; // equivalent to a = a + 5 = 7 + 5 = 12
  ```
- `-=`
  ```C
  int a = 7;
  a -= 2; // equivalent to a = a - 2 = 7 - 2 = 5
  ```
- `*=`
  ```C
  int a = 7;
  a *= 3; // equivalent to a = a * 3 = 7 * 3 = 21
  ```
- `/=`
  ```C
  int a = 21;
  a /= 3; // equivalent to a = a / 3 = 21 / 3 = 7
  ```
- `%=`  
  ```C
  int a = 21;
  a %= 5; // equivalent to a = a % 5 = 21 % 5 = 1
  ```
     
Misc Operators ↦ sizeof & ternary
Besides the operators discussed above, there are a few other important operators including sizeof and ? : supported by the C Language.

Operator	               Description	                                        Example
sizeof()	               Returns the size of a variable.	                    sizeof(a), where a is integer, will return 4.
&	                    Returns the address of a variable.	                    &a; returns the actual address of the variable.
*	                    Pointer to a variable.	                              *a;
? :	                    Conditional Expression.	                              If Condition is true ? then value X : otherwise value Y


## 6. Operator precedence and associativity in C
Operators with the highest precedence appear at the top of the list. Within an expression, operators
with higher precedence will be evaluated first. When two or more operators of the same precedence is
present in an expression, then the associativity of the operator tells us the order in which the operators
must be evaluated. The associativity in the given list is from left to right i.e, operators in the left are
evaluated first. 

- Postfix `() [] -> . ++ --`
- Unary `+ - ! ~ ++ -- (type)* & sizeof`
- Multiplicative `* / %`
- Additive `+ -`
- Shift `<< >>`
- Relational `< <= > >=`
- Equality `== !=`
- Bitwise AND `&`
- Bitwise XOR `^`
- Bitwise OR `|`
- Logical AND `&&`
- Logical OR `||`
- Conditional `?:`
- Assignment `= += -= *= /= %= >>= <<= &= ^= |=`
- Comma `,`
