---
id: 67508b92b31af876eed82c66
title: Task 45
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-45
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`Will`, `is scheduled`, `will be`, `are set`, `is`, `We'll`, and `will impact`.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Jake: Maria, the next system update BLANK for this Saturday at 2 AM. It's crucial to enhance our firewall settings to prevent any potential DoS attacks.`

`Maria: Yes, Jake, I've reviewed the timetable. The server downtime starts exactly when the user traffic is at its lowest, correct?`

`Jake: That's right. The update should last about two hours. Our main goal is to minimize disruption while strengthening our defenses.`

`Maria: BLANK the support team be on call during the update? We need to make sure they're ready to handle any immediate issues that come up.`

`Jake: Absolutely, the entire technical support team BLANK on duty. They've been briefed and are prepared to manage any unexpected situations.`

`Maria: Great, and when does the team perform the final checks?`

`Jake: The final system checks BLANK for Friday night. BLANK confirm that all security patches are ready to be deployed without any complications.`

`Maria: Perfect. And the training session for the new security protocols, when BLANK that planned?`

`Jake: The training is planned for Thursday afternoon. Every team member must understand the changes and how these BLANK our operations.`

## --blanks--

`is scheduled`

### --feedback--

These two words together are the `Present Simple` tense to describe a planned future event.

---

`Will`

### --feedback--

This word indicates the `Future Simple` tense and is used for asking about future actions. It is capitalized.

---

`will be`

### --feedback--

These two words together use the `Future Simple` tense to describe a planned future action.

---

`are set`

### --feedback--

These two words together are used to talk about a future event that has been scheduled.

---

`We'll`

### --feedback--

Contraction that shows a future action or plan. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`is`

### --feedback--

This is the verb `to be` conjugated.

---

`will impact`

### --feedback--

These two words together use the `Future Simple` tense to describe an action that will affect something in the future.
