---
id: 66b580cb9307d46113a8a637
title: Task 95
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-95
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

A couple of days after the conversation with Anna, Brian sent this email to the team:

`Email subject: Cybersecurity Training Session`

`Dear Team,`

`I want to update you on our next cybersecurity training session.`

`Details:`

`- Topic: Password Security and Phishing`

`- Date: August 15, 2024`

`- Time: 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM`

`- Location: Google Meet`

`Why Attend?`

`As you know, our company has recently faced some security threats. We're adding a section on phishing, using real-life scenarios to ensure everyone uses strong passwords and protects our data.`

`Attendance:`

`Attendance is mandatory. If you can't attend, please inform your manager.`

`Looking forward to seeing you all.`

`Best regards,`

`Brian`

What are the most relevant details to be able to attend the meeting?

## --answers--

To know why the training session is important.

### --feedback--

Although understanding the importance is useful, it doesn't help you attend the meeting.

---

To bring a laptop to take notes during the session.

### --feedback--

Bringing a laptop might be helpful, but it's not essential information for attending the meeting.

---

The date, time, topic, and location of the training session.

---

To talk to a manager in case you can't attend the meeting.

### --feedback--

This is an important information, but it won't help you to attend the meeting. Quite the opposite!

## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

To answer correctly, focus on the details needed to attend the meeting: the `date`, `time`, `topic`, and `location`. These are listed under `Details` in the email. While informing a manager is important if you can't attend, it doesn't help you participate in the session itself.
