---
id: 66b58252cb001966f564c19e
title: Task 96
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-96
---
<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

A couple of days after the conversation with Anna, Brian sent this email to the team:

`Email subject: Cybersecurity Training Session`

`Dear Team,`

`I want to update you on our next cybersecurity training session.`

`Details:`

`- Topic: Password Security and Phishing`

`- Date: August 15, 2024`

`- Time: 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM`

`- Location: Google Meet`

`Why Attend?`

`As you know, our company has recently faced some security threats. We're adding a section on phishing, using real-life scenarios to ensure everyone uses strong passwords and protects our data.`

`Attendance:`

`Attendance is mandatory. If you can't attend, please inform your manager.`

`Looking forward to seeing you all.`

`Best regards,`

`Brian`

Why is the company currently focusing on phishing attempts in the training?

## --answers--

Because of recent security threats.

---

To improve employee productivity.

### --feedback--

The email focuses on security threats, not productivity. 

---

To introduce new software tools.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention new software tools.

---

Because the company is changing its cybersecurity policies.

### --feedback--

Focus on whether the email mentions a change in policy or the need to address specific threats.

## --video-solution--

1

# --explanation--

The email says, `our company has recently faced some security threats` and mentions adding a section on phishing. This shows that the focus on phishing is due to recent security threats, not a policy change.
