---
id: 647e21d08acb466c97ccbee8
title: Challenge Project - Develop foreach and if-elseif-else Structures to Process Array Data in C#
challengeType: 19
dashedName: challenge-project-develop-foreach-and-if-elseif-else-structures-to-process-array-data-in-c-sharp
---

# --description--

This challenge will be partially completed on the Microsoft Learn platform. Follow these instructions to complete the challenge:

1. Go to <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/challenge-project-arrays-iteration-selection/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer">https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/challenge-project-arrays-iteration-selection/</a> and complete all the tasks for the "Challenge Project - Develop foreach and if-elseif-else Structures to Process Array Data in C#" module. This is **required** to earn the "Create and Run Simple C# Console Applications" trophy on Microsoft Learn, and qualify for the certification exam.
1. When you are finished, come back and correctly answer the question below.

# --assignment--

Complete the <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/challenge-project-arrays-iteration-selection/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer">Develop `foreach` and `if`-`elseif`-`else` Structures to Process Array Data in C#</a> challenge project on Microsoft Learn. Then, answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

A developer is working with two other developers to update a collection of applications. The developers will use code comments during the update process. Which of the following describes an appropriate use of code comments?

## --answers--

When updates are made, the developers use line and block comments to identify each individual code update.

---

When updates are made, the developers leave all existing code comments intact. New comments are added to indicate when old comments no longer apply.

---

When updates are made, the developers summarize changes using block comments.

## --video-solution--

3
