---
id: 6797fba62b4a0b20086f02db
title: Task 33
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-33
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

These are Bob's notes for Jessica's performance review session:

`Date: February 11, 2025`

`Collaborator: Jessica`

`Reviewer: Bob, Development Team Manager`

`Strengths`

- `Problem Detection: Effective at identifying critical software issues.`

- `Impact on Team: Her QA skills prevent bugs from progressing to production, which helps with overall team efficiency.`

`Areas for improvement`

- `Documentation: Needs to provide more complete and detailed documentation.`

`Goals for the Next Quarter`

- `Documentation Quality: Improve documentation to make it easier to follow her work.`

- `Maintain QA Excellence: Her QA skills are excellent. She should continue working on them for the benefit of the team.`

`Closing Remarks`

`Jessica is a valuable team member with room for growth in documentation practices.`

`Improving in this area will enhance her contributions and team efficiency.`

What are Jessica's most positive traits based on Bob's notes?

## --answers--

She's great at developing high-quality software fast.

### --feedback--

Her skills as a software developer are not mentioned on Bob's notes.

---

She takes a long time to detect issues and never delivers on time.

### --feedback--

That would not be a strength, but a point for improvement.

---

Jessica's documentation skills are excellent.

### --feedback--

That is actually a point for improvement for Jessica.

---

Jessica is very good at identifying critical issues and this helps the team be more efficient.

## --video-solution--

4

# --explanation--

To discover the positive comments on someone's work, you should check the `Strengths` section, where reviewers normally mention the positive things found about the collaborator during the period. Check that section to find the correct answer for this question.
