---
id: 6798dab339602f988fc550e8
title: Task 35
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-35
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

These are Bob's notes for Jessica's performance review session:

`Date: February 11, 2025`

`Collaborator: Jessica`

`Reviewer: Bob, Development Team Manager`

`Strengths`

- `Problem Detection: Effective at identifying critical software issues.`

- `Impact on Team: Her QA skills prevent bugs from progressing to production, which helps with overall team efficiency.`

`Areas for improvement`

- `Documentation: Needs to provide more complete and detailed documentation.`

`Goals for the Next Quarter`

- `Documentation Quality: Improve documentation to make it easier to follow her work.`

- `Maintain QA Excellence: Her QA skills are excellent. She should continue working on them for the benefit of the team.`

`Closing Remarks`

`Jessica is a valuable team member with room for growth in documentation practices.`

`Improving in this area will enhance her contributions and team efficiency.`

What goals has Bob set for Jessica's next quarter?

## --answers--

Work on her spelling and grammar.

### --feedback--

Bob does not mention language issues.

---

Keep working on QA skills and improve documentation.

---

Work on her soft skills to make her a better team worker. 

### --feedback--

Bob does not mention social skills on his notes.

---

Follow other people's work so she could copy them.

### --feedback--

There is no mention about copying other team member's work on Bob's notes.

## --video-solution--

2

# --explanation--

To see the goals that Bob set for Jessica, you should check the `Goals for the Next Quarter` section, where reviewers normally mention what collaborators should do for the next three months to improve. Check that section to find the correct answer for this question.
