---
id: 679bf2d8546f4b44f8c60650
title: Task 69
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-69
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

After talking to Brian, Lisa felt like taking a course on conflict resolution in the workplace. Here's a brochure of a course she found:

`Mastering Conflict Resolution in the Workplace`

`- Find the Right Balance Between Debate & Progress!`

`Are disagreements slowing your team down? Do you struggle to meet deadlines because discussions go in circles? Healthy debate is valuable, but too much disagreement can stop real progress. Learn how to balance different perspectives while keeping projects on track!`

`What you'll learn:`

`> How to encourage productive discussions without delaying work`

`> Strategies for listening to feedback while staying focused`

`> The importance of making sure everyone feels heard and valued`

`> How to handle strong opinions and find common ground`

`> Techniques to work together efficiently and meet deadlines`

`Next session: [March 20th]`

`Location: [Online]`

`Perfect for: Team leaders, managers, and professionals who want to improve team dynamics`

`Don't let too much debate slow you down! Learn how to keep discussions focused and your team motivated.`

`Sign up today! [conflict_solvers@moogle.com]`

Which one of these is not mentioned in the brochure as something you'll learn in the course?

## --answers--

Strategies for listening to feedback while staying focused

### --feedback--

That is one of the items the brochure lists.

---

Techniques to postpone headlines

---

How to handle strong opinions and find common ground

### --feedback--

This item is on the `What you'll learn` list.

---

The importance of making sure everyone feels heard and valued

### --feedback--

This item is on the `What you'll learn` list.

## --video-solution--

2

# --explanation--

Right below the heading `What you'll learn` of this brochure, you'll find a list of topics that the course will discuss and teach about. Check that list and look at the answers for items which are not part of the list.
