---
id: 679d8721183d762faa960fb6
title: Task 120
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-120
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What you will read now is the email the client sent to Maria:

`Subject: Issues with Latest Update`

`Dear Maria,`

`I hope you're doing well. I wanted to reach out regarding the latest update. Unfortunately, I've noticed that some features aren't working as expected. Specifically, the search function seems significantly slower than before, and some buttons are unresponsive.`

`These issues are affecting our workflow, and I'm concerned about the impact on overall user experience. Could you please look into this and let me know if a fix is possible soon? Keeping me updated on any progress would be greatly appreciated.`

`Looking forward to your response.`

`Best regards,`

`Brian Richards`

`Vice-President at Epsilon Corp Ltd.`

According to the first paragraph, what is the client writing about?

## --answers--

About starting a new deal with Maria's company.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention a new deal.

---

About a shipment that got misrouted.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention any shipment.

---

About a software's latest update.

---

About an invitation to visit the client's premises. 

### --feedback--

The client is not inviting Maria for a visit to his company's building.

## --video-solution--

3

# --explanation--

To answer this question, read the email, especifically the parts mentioned in the question. Here, you should read the first paragraph and try to find why the client is reaching out to Maria. Find out the reason for writing to answer the question correctly.
