---
id: 679d8a640c58654e540b643b
title: Task 122
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-122
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What you will read now is the email the client sent to Maria:

`Subject: Issues with Latest Update`

`Dear Maria,`

`I hope you're doing well. I wanted to reach out regarding the latest update. Unfortunately, I've noticed that some features aren't working as expected. Specifically, the search function seems significantly slower than before, and some buttons are unresponsive.`

`These issues are affecting our workflow, and I'm concerned about the impact on overall user experience. Could you please look into this and let me know if a fix is possible soon? Keeping me updated on any progress would be greatly appreciated.`

`Looking forward to your response.`

`Best regards,`

`Brian Richards`

`Vice-President at Epsilon Corp Ltd.`

What features seem not to be working as expected?

## --answers--

The contact form and the logging in process.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention these features.

---

The search function is slow and some buttons do not respond to commands.

---

The pages don't open.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention pages not opening.

---

The texts are all in a different language now.

### --feedback--

The client does not mention another language.

## --video-solution--

2

# --explanation--

To answer this question, you should read what comes right after `Specifically`, since that is where the client mentions the problems they found. Check what features the client talks about to answer the question correctly.
