---
id: 679d8bd4a760255beb6b5c9c
title: Task 123
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-123
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What you will read now is the email the client sent to Maria:

`Subject: Issues with Latest Update`

`Dear Maria,`

`I hope you're doing well. I wanted to reach out regarding the latest update. Unfortunately, I've noticed that some features aren't working as expected. Specifically, the search function seems significantly slower than before, and some buttons are unresponsive.`

`These issues are affecting our workflow, and I'm concerned about the impact on overall user experience. Could you please look into this and let me know if a fix is possible soon? Keeping me updated on any progress would be greatly appreciated.`

`Looking forward to your response.`

`Best regards,`

`Brian Richards`

`Vice-President at Epsilon Corp Ltd.`

According to the client, what are the negative consequences of these issues?

## --answers--

They make it impossible to use the software.

### --feedback--

The client does not mention impossibility.

---

The software cannot be operated in a different language.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention a different language.

---

The workflow is better than ever before.

### --feedback--

That would be a good thing, not an issue to be solved.

---

The workflow was affected and there was an impact on overall user experience. 

## --video-solution--

4

# --explanation--

To answer this question, you should read the second paragraph of the email, where the client comments on what the issues are causing. Check how they affect users to answer the question correctly.
