---
id: 679d8d1b41573368e0f80348
title: Task 124
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-124
---

<!-- READING -->

# --instructions--

Read the text and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What you will read now is the email the client sent to Maria:

`Subject: Issues with Latest Update`

`Dear Maria,`

`I hope you're doing well. I wanted to reach out regarding the latest update. Unfortunately, I've noticed that some features aren't working as expected. Specifically, the search function seems significantly slower than before, and some buttons are unresponsive.`

`These issues are affecting our workflow, and I'm concerned about the impact on overall user experience. Could you please look into this and let me know if a fix is possible soon? Keeping me updated on any progress would be greatly appreciated.`

`Looking forward to your response.`

`Best regards,`

`Brian Richards`

`Vice-President at Epsilon Corp Ltd.`

What measures does the client expect Maria and her team to take?

## --answers--

Investigate the issues and inform them of a possible solution in a short time.

---

Redo the software from scratch.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention redoing the whole software.

---

Refund the client as they do not want the software any longer.

### --feedback--

The email does not mention refunds.

---

Spend the weekend if needed to solve the issue until next week.

### --feedback--

The client does not mention a deadline to solve the issue.

## --video-solution--

1

# --explanation--

To answer this question, you should read the question that starts with `Could you please...`. That's where the client request can be found. Read it and you'll be able to answer the question correctly.
