---
id: 695774002591bbc5f8cf3e53
title: Build a Discount Calculator
challengeType: 27
dashedName: build-a-discount-calculator
---

# --description--

In this lab you will write a function that calculates the final price of an item after applying a percentage discount.

For example, if the price of an item is `100` and a discount of `20` is applied, the discount amount is `20`, and the final price is `80`.

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

1. You should declare a global `price` variable and assign it a positive numeric value (integer or floating point number).

2. You should define a function named `apply_discount`.

3. The `apply_discount` function should take exactly two parameters: `price` and `discount`.

4. If `price` is not a number (`int` or `float`), the function should return the string `The price should be a number`

5. If `discount` is not a number (`int` or `float`), the function should return the string `The discount should be a number`.

6. If `price` is less than or equal to `0`, the function should return the string `The price should be greater than 0`.

7. If `discount` is less than `0` or greater than `100`, the function should return the string `The discount should be between 0 and 100`.

8. If both inputs are valid, the function should calculate the discount as a percentage of the price.

9. The function should return the final price after applying the discount.

10. The function should use local variables to calculate the discount amount and final price.

11. The global `price` variable should not be modified by calling the `apply_discount` function.

# --hints--

You should have a variable named `price` defined outside the `apply_discount` function.

```js
// TODO
```

You should have a function named `apply_discount`.

```js
// TODO
```

Your `apply_discount` function should take two parameters.

```js
// TODO
```


When `apply_discount` is called with a `price` (first argument) that is not a number (int or float) it should return `The price should be a number`.

```js
// TODO
```

When `apply_discount` is called with a `discount` (second argument) that is not a number (int or float) it should return `The discount should be a number`.

```js
// TODO
```

When `apply_discount` is called with a `price` lower than or equal to `0`, it should return `The price should be greater than 0`.

```js
// TODO
```

When `apply_discount` is called with a `discount` lower than `0` or greater than `100`, it should return `The discount should be between 0 and 100`.

```js
// TODO
```

`apply_discount(100, 20)` should return `80`.

```js
// TODO
```

`apply_discount(200, 50)` should return `100`.

```js
// TODO
```

`apply_discount(50, 0)` should return `50`.

```js
// TODO
```

When `apply_discount` is called with a discount of `100`, it should return `0`.

```js
// TODO
```

Calling `apply_discount` should not change the value of the `price` variable declared outside the function.

```js
// TODO
```


# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py

```

# --solutions--

```py
price = 20

def apply_discount(price, discount):
    # Validation steps
    if not isinstance(price, (int, float)):
        return "The price should be a number"
    if not isinstance(discount, (int, float)):
        return "The discount should be a number"
    if price <= 0:
        return "The price should greater than 0"
    if discount < 0 or discount > 100:
        return "The discount should be between 0 and 100"

    discount_amount = price * discount / 100
    final_price = price - discount_amount
    return final_price
```
