---
id: 67c73596502237018582f2ed
title: Task 152
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-152
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.  

# --instructions--  

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:  

`introduce`, `it's true`, `pleasure`, `who's`, `c'mon`, `workmate`, and `this is`  

# --fillInTheBlank--  

## --sentence--  

`Sophie: Oh, look BLANK here! Hey, Brian! How is everything?`  

`Brian: Sophie! Great to see you here.`  

`Sophie: You, too. Brian, let me BLANK you to Tom. Tom, this is Brian. He's a web developer. Brian, BLANK Tom. He's our new graphic designer and he is from Texas.`  

`Brian: It is a BLANK to meet you, Tom. Sophie is a great BLANK. She's very kind and helpful.`  

`Sophie: Oh, BLANK, Brian!`  

`Brian: But BLANK. She's the person to go to if you need help!`  

## --blanks--  

`who's`  

### --feedback--

This is the abbreviation of `who` and `is`. The first letter is capitalized.  

---

`introduce`  

### --feedback--

This verb means to formally present one person to another.  

---

`this is`  

### --feedback--

These two words are used to introduce someone. The first word is a determiner.  

---

`pleasure`  

### --feedback--

This noun expresses enjoyment or politeness when meeting someone.  

---

`workmate`  

### --feedback--

This noun refers to a colleague or someone you work with.  

---

`c'mon`  

### --feedback--

This is the abbreviation of `come on`, often used informally for encouragement or emphasis.  

---

`it's true`  

### --feedback--

These two words confirm a statement. The first word is the abbreviation of `it` and `is`, and the second word is an adjective meaning correct or factual.  
