---
id: 67c72f8840fac4fa5c790c9f
title: Task 94
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-94
---


<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:  

`someone`, `is this`, `from`, `a developer`, `your`, `new graphic designer`, `in`, and `they're`  

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Tom: Hi, there. I'm Tom. I'm the BLANK.`  

`Sophie: Oh, hi Tom! I'm Sophie. I'm BLANK. Where are you from, Tom?`  

`Tom: I'm BLANK Texas. How about you?`  

`Sophie: I'm from here BLANK California. Welcome aboard.`  

`Tom: Thanks. Everybody is so nice around here. Hey, BLANK one of those standing desks? These are great! It's good to stand up a little instead of just sitting all the time.`  

`Sophie: That's so true. I'm a bit inactive, sitting all the time. This is a good alternative for me. But hey, now BLANK desk is just like my desk. You're in luck.`  

`Tom: Oh, awesome. My computer and drawing tablet are great, too.`  

`Sophie: Yeah. At this company, BLANK very attentive to these details. You're going to like it here if you're into cutting-edge gadgets.`  

`Tom: This is so cool. A standing desk, an ergonomic chair and an ergonomic mouse. Man, everything is perfect. I'm in love with this place!`  

`Sophie: So nice to have BLANK so energetic like you in the team. Are you ready to begin?`  

`Tom: Yes, I sure am!`    

## --blanks--

`new graphic designer`

### --feedback--

This indicates someone who recently joined a company. The last two words describe the job title itself.

---

`a developer`

### --feedback--

A job title in programming or software development.

---

`from`

### --feedback--

This preposition indicates the place of origin.

---

`in`

### --feedback--

This preposition is used to describe location within a place.

---

`is this`

### --feedback--

This forms a question, asking for confirmation about an object.  

---

`your`

### --feedback--

This possessive adjective shows that something belongs to the person being spoken to.  

---

`they're`

### --feedback--

This is the contraction of `they` and the verb `to be`.

---

`someone`

### --feedback--

This pronoun refers to an unspecified person.  
