---
id: 67c72ce3fb4541f6ebc8902b
title: Task 33
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-33
---

<!-- REVIEW -->

# --description--

This is a review of the entire dialogue you just studied.

# --instructions--

Place the following phrases in the correct spot:

`me`, `You're`, `That's`, `do you`, `it`, and `It's`

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Maria: Hello! BLANK the new graphic designer, right? I'm Maria, the team lead.`

`Tom: Hi, that's right! I'm Tom McKenzie. BLANK a pleasure to meet you.`

`Maria: Welcome aboard, Tom! How BLANK like California so far?`

`Tom: I like it. It's different from Texas, but I like BLANK here.`

`Maria: Great! Let me show you to your desk. Do you see the desk with a drawing tablet and a computer? BLANK your workspace.`

`Tom: Everything looks great. Thanks for showing BLANK around the place, Maria.`

## --blanks--

`You're`

### --feedback--

This is the abbreviation of the pronoun `You`and the verb `to be`. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`It's`

### --feedback--

This is the abbreviation of the pronoun `It`and the verb `to be`. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`do you`

### --feedback--

These two words together form a question. The first word is an auxiliary verb and the second a pronoun.

---

`it`

### --feedback--

This preposition refers to something already mentioned.

---

`That's`

### --feedback--

This is the abbreviation of `That` and the verb `to be`. The first letter is capitalized.

---

`me`

### --feedback--

This pronoun is used when referring to oneself as the object of an action.
