guide/english/svg/shapes/index.md, before:

---
title: SVG Shapes
---
## SVG Shapes

Several shapes can be created using SVG drawing. An SVG drawing can use and combine seven shapes: Path, Rectangle, Circle, Ellipse, Line, Polyline, and Polygon.

### Path

The `path` element is the most commonly seen, and is usually generated by programs designed to export SVG code.

```svg
  <path d="M2 1 h1 v1 h1 v1 h-1 v1 h-1 v-1 h-1 v-1 h1 z" />
```

The example `path` above will generate a "plus" symbole (+) when used inside an SVG drawing. SVG `path` elements are not built manually, but generated through design programs that can manipulate vector graphics, such as Illustrator or Inkscape.

### Rectangle

The rectangle element `rect` draws a rectangle on the screen, and it accepts six attributes.

```svg
  <rect x="0" y="0" width="100" height="50" rx="10" ry="10" />
```

`x` and `y` assign the position of the top-left corner of the rectangle, and `width` and `height` assign the size of the rectangle. `rx` and `ry` assign the radius of the rectangle corners, similar to the CSS border-radius property.

### Circle

The circle element `circle` accepts three attributes.

```svg
  <circle cx="100" cy="100" r="50" />
```

`cx` and `cy` assign the position of the center of the circle, and `r` assigns the radius (size) of the circle.

### Ellipse

The ellipse element, `ellipse`, is similar to the `circle` element except the radius is split into two attributes.

```svg
  <ellipse cx="100" cy="100" rx="50" ry="20" />
```

Again, `cx` and `cy` assign the position of the center of the ellipse, and now `rx` and `ry` assign the horizontal and vertical radius of the ellipse, respectively. A larger `rx` will give a "fat" ellipse, and a larger `ry` will give a skinnier ellipse. If `rx` and `ry` are equal, it will form a circle.

### Line

The `line` element is simple, and accepts four attributes.

```svg
  <line x1="0" x2="100" y1="50" y2="70" />
```

The `x1` and `y1` attributes assign the first point of the line, and the `x2` and `y2` attributes assign the second point of the line.

### Polyline

A `polyline` is a series of connected straight lines, assigned in a single attribute.

```svg
  <polyline points="0 100, 50 70, 60 40, 20 0" />
```

The `points` attribute assigns a list of points, each point separated by a comma.

### Polygon

The `polygon` element is also a series of connected straight lines, but in this case, the last line will automatically reconnect to the initial point.

```svg
  <polygon points="0 100, 50 70, 60 40, 20 0" />
```

This example will draw the same shape as the `polyline` above, but it will draw an extra line to "close" the series of lines.

## More Information

MDN Documentation: <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/Basic_Shapes' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>MDN</a>

Commit message:

add more detail to SVG paths

guide/english/svg/shapes/index.md, after:

---
title: SVG Shapes
---
## SVG Shapes

Several shapes can be created using SVG drawing. An SVG drawing can use and combine seven shapes: Path, Rectangle, Circle, Ellipse, Line, Polyline, and Polygon.

Almost all shapes take these common attributes:

```
fill: color to be filled
stroke: color of the stroke
stroke-width: how wide the width is
```

### Path

The `path` element is the most commonly seen, and is usually generated by programs designed to export SVG code.

```svg
  <path d="M2 1 h1 v1 h1 v1 h-1 v1 h-1 v-1 h-1 v-1 h1 z" />
```

The example `path` above will generate a "plus" symbol (+) when used inside an SVG drawing. 

SVG `path` elements are not usually coded manually, but generated through design programs that can manipulate vector graphics, such as Adobe Illustrator or Inkscape. However, with enough practice, you will be able to make impressive icons writing your own `path` element. 

The `d` property is known as "Line commands", and it tells the drawing engine how you want things to be drawn. All line commands come in upper- and lower-case forms, where the upper-case form is absolute positioning, and the lower-case form is relative from the previous point. 

The basic line commands are as follows:

* M/m (x y): `M`ove to this point. Imagine this as picking up your pen and placing it on this point. It does not draw anything.
* L/l (x y): draw a `L`ine to this point. 
* H/h (x): draw a horizontal line to this point. Equivalent to `L/l x 0`
* V/v (y): draw a vertical line to this point. Equivalent to `L/l 0 y`
* Z/z (no args): draws a line from the last point to this point. No difference in upper/lower case.

There are more complicated line commands, which you can read more about on the [MDN Docs on Paths](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/Paths).

### Rectangle

The rectangle element `rect` draws a rectangle on the screen, and it accepts six attributes.

```svg
  <rect x="0" y="0" width="100" height="50" rx="10" ry="10" />
```

`x` and `y` assign the position of the top-left corner of the rectangle, and `width` and `height` assign the size of the rectangle. `rx` and `ry` assign the radius of the rectangle corners, similar to the CSS border-radius property.

### Circle

The circle element `circle` accepts three attributes.

```svg
  <circle cx="100" cy="100" r="50" />
```

`cx` and `cy` assign the position of the center of the circle, and `r` assigns the radius (size) of the circle.

### Ellipse

The ellipse element, `ellipse`, is similar to the `circle` element except the radius is split into two attributes.

```svg
  <ellipse cx="100" cy="100" rx="50" ry="20" />
```

Again, `cx` and `cy` assign the position of the center of the ellipse, and now `rx` and `ry` assign the horizontal and vertical radius of the ellipse, respectively. A larger `rx` will give a "fat" ellipse, and a larger `ry` will give a skinnier ellipse. If `rx` and `ry` are equal, it will form a circle.

### Line

The `line` element is simple, and accepts four attributes.

```svg
  <line x1="0" x2="100" y1="50" y2="70" />
```

The `x1` and `y1` attributes assign the first point of the line, and the `x2` and `y2` attributes assign the second point of the line.

### Polyline

A `polyline` is a series of connected straight lines, assigned in a single attribute.

```svg
  <polyline points="0 100, 50 70, 60 40, 20 0" />
```

The `points` attribute assigns a list of points, each point separated by a comma.

### Polygon

The `polygon` element is also a series of connected straight lines, but in this case, the last line will automatically reconnect to the initial point.

```svg
  <polygon points="0 100, 50 70, 60 40, 20 0" />
```

This example will draw the same shape as the `polyline` above, but it will draw an extra line to "close" the series of lines.

## More Information

MDN Documentation: <a href='https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/Basic_Shapes' target='_blank' rel='nofollow'>MDN</a>
[MDN Docs on Paths](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/Paths)
