guide/english/react/component/index.md, before:

---
title: React - Components
---
## React - Components

Components are reusable in react.js. You can inject value into props as given below :

```jsx

function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}</h1>;
}

const element = <Welcome name="Faisal Arkan" />;
ReactDOM.render(
  element,
  document.getElementById('root')
);

```

The value ```name="Faisal Arkan"``` will be assigned to ```{props.name}``` from ```function Welcome(props)``` and returns a component ```<h1>Hello, Faisal Arkan</h1>``` which is saved into the const variable ```element```. The component can then be rendered via ```ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));```. ```document.getElementById('root')``` in this case is the target location you would like the ```element``` component to be rendered.    

### Other ways to declare components

There are many ways to declare components when using React.js, but there are two kinds of components, ***stateless*** components and ***stateful*** components.

### Stateful

#### Class Type Components

```jsx

class Cat extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);

    this.state = {
      humor: 'happy'
    }
  }
  render() {
    return(
      <div>
        <h1>{this.props.name}</h1>
        <p>
          {this.props.color}
        </p>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

```

### Stateless Components

#### Functional Components (Arrow Function from ES6)

```jsx

const Cat = props => {
  return (  
    <div>
      <h1>{props.name}</h1>
      <p>{props.color}</p>
    </div>;
  );
};

```

#### Implicit Return Components

```jsx

const Cat = props => 
  <div>
    <h1>{props.name}</h1>
    <p>{props.color}</p>
  </div>;

```

Commit message:

Update component definitions
Added a distinction between components for Class vs. Functional components.

guide/english/react/component/index.md, after:

---
title: React - Components
---
## React - Components

Components are reusable in react.js. You can inject value into props as given below :

```jsx

function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}</h1>;
}

const element = <Welcome name="Faisal Arkan" />;
ReactDOM.render(
  element,
  document.getElementById('root')
);

```

The value ```name="Faisal Arkan"``` will be assigned to ```{props.name}``` from ```function Welcome(props)``` and returns a component ```<h1>Hello, Faisal Arkan</h1>``` which is saved into the const variable ```element```. The component can then be rendered via ```ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));```. ```document.getElementById('root')``` in this case is the target location you would like the ```element``` component to be rendered.    

### Other ways to declare components

There are many ways to declare components when using React.js, but there are two kinds of components, ***stateless*** components and ***stateful*** components. 

These can also be referred to as ***Class*** and ***Functional*** components.  ***Class*** components use the keyword ```class``` and contain things like ```state``` and other helper functions.  They refer to their props using the ```this``` keyword.  ***Functional*** components are just that, Javascript arrow functions that are exported as components.  These cannot have their own state and also don't use the keyword ```this``` when referring to any props passed down to them.

### Stateful

#### Class Type Components

```jsx

class Cat extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);

    this.state = {
      humor: 'happy'
    }
  }
  render() {
    return(
      <div>
        <h1>{this.props.name}</h1>
        <p>
          {this.props.color}
        </p>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

```

### Stateless Components

#### Functional Components (Arrow Function from ES6)

```jsx

const Cat = props => {
  return (  
    <div>
      <h1>{props.name}</h1>
      <p>{props.color}</p>
    </div>;
  );
};

```

#### Implicit Return Components

```jsx

const Cat = props => 
  <div>
    <h1>{props.name}</h1>
    <p>{props.color}</p>
  </div>;

```
