---
id: 67053ea535fe23160e6b29c1
title: Task 14
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-14
---

<!-- (Audio) James: Then I reviewed the error logs more carefully. -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and complete the sentence below.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Then I reviewed the error logs BLANK BLANK.`

## --blanks--

`more`

### --feedback--

This word is used to indicate a higher degree or intensity.

---

`carefully`

### --feedback--

This word is an adverb that describes how the action was performed, with care.

# --explanation--

The phrase `more carefully` uses `more` to intensify the adverb `carefully`, which describes the way James reviewed the error logs. Adverbs like `carefully` modify verbs, showing how an action is performed.  

If you compare `more careful` and `more carefully`, the difference is in the fact that `More careful` is an adjective phrase describing a noun (person, place, or thing). Example: `She was more careful with her calculations.` (`more careful` describes the subject/person, `she`). `More carefully`, however, is an adverb phrase, which describes how the action is performed. Example: `She checked her calculations more carefully.` (describes how the calcultations were `checked` - in other words, it describes the action of `checking`, not the person who `checks`).  

In James's sentence, `more carefully` explains that James increased the level of attention or detail in the reviewing of the logs. It describes the review, not James.

Other examples:

- Adjective: `Be more careful when handling fragile items.` - Suggests that you are the person who needs to have this trait.

- Adverb: `He handled the fragile items more carefully than before.` - Describes the handling of the items, not the person. In other words, it describes the action of `handling`.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "interview-room3.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "James",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 15,
          "z": 1.2
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_2-1.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 11.3,
      "finishTimestamp": 13.86
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "James",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "James",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 3.56,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "Then I reviewed the error logs more carefully.",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "James",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 4.06
    }
  ]
}
```
