---
id: 671f774373f2ce0696fe9621
title: Task 100
challengeType: 22
dashedName: task-100
---

<!-- (Audio) Brian: Speaking of which, did you manage to catch the cybersecurity talk this morning? -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and complete the sentence below.

# --fillInTheBlank--

## --sentence--

`Speaking of which, did you BLANK to catch the BLANK talk this morning?`

## --blanks--

`manage`

### --feedback--

This word means to succeed in doing something, often with some difficulty.

---

`cybersecurity`

### --feedback--

This word refers to the practice of protecting systems, networks, and data from digital threats.

# --explanation--

`Speaking of which` is used to link a new topic to something that was just mentioned, often as a natural transition in conversation. For example: 

`The keynote speaker mentioned Python. Speaking of which, have you tried the new Python library?` - here, `speaking of which` is used to make the transition between the mention the keynote speaker made and the new library. 

In this context, `manage` means to succeed in doing something, especially something that might have been difficult. For example: 

`Despite the time crunch, I managed to submit the report on time.` - This means you were successful in sending the report before your deadline. 

`Cybersecurity` refers to the practice of protecting computer systems, networks, and data from digital attacks or unauthorized access. For example: 

`The company invested in cybersecurity measures to prevent data breaches.` - This means the company is concerned with protecting their systems. 

In this sentence, Brian asks if Maria attended the talk about protecting systems and data from threats in the morning.

# --scene--

```json
{
  "setup": {
    "background": "cafe.png",
    "characters": [
      {
        "character": "Brian",
        "position": {
          "x": 50,
          "y": 15,
          "z": 1.2
        },
        "opacity": 0
      }
    ],
    "audio": {
      "filename": "B1_2-3.mp3",
      "startTime": 1,
      "startTimestamp": 40.1,
      "finishTimestamp": 44.22
    }
  },
  "commands": [
    {
      "character": "Brian",
      "opacity": 1,
      "startTime": 0
    },
    {
      "character": "Brian",
      "startTime": 1,
      "finishTime": 5.12,
      "dialogue": {
        "text": "Speaking of which, did you manage to catch the cybersecurity talk this morning?",
        "align": "center"
      }
    },
    {
      "character": "Brian",
      "opacity": 0,
      "startTime": 5.62
    }
  ]
}
```
