---
id: 67f39b40deaec81a3e40e0c5
title: Python Basics Review
challengeType: 24
dashedName: review-python-basics
---

# --description--

## What is Python?

- **Introduction**: Python is a general-purpose programming language known for its simplicity and ease of use. Python is used in many fields like data science and machine learning, web development, scripting and automation, embedded systems and IoT, and much more.
- **Common Use Cases**: Python is used in data science, machine learning, web development, cybersecurity, microcomputers like Arduino and Raspberry Pi and automation.

## Python in Your Local Environment

- **Installation**: The best way to install Python on Windows, Mac, and Linux is to download the installer from the official Python website (`https://www.python.org/`).

## Variables

- **Declaring Variables**: To declare a variable, you start with the variable name followed by the assignment operator (`=`) and then the data type. This can be a number, string, boolean, etc. 

```py
name = 'John Doe'
age = 25
```

## Comments

- **Single line comments**: These types of comments should be used for short notes you wish to leave in your code.

```py
# This is a single line comment
```

- **Multi line comments**: These types of comments should be used to leave larger notes or to comment out sections of code

```py
"""
This is is a multi line comment.
Here is some code commented out.

name = 'John Doe'
age = 25
"""
```

- **Naming Conventions for Variables**: Here are the naming conventions you should use for variables:

  - Variable names can only start with a letter or an underscore (_), not a number.
  - Variable names can only contain alphanumeric characters (a-z, A-Z, 0-9) and underscores (_).
  - Variable names are case-sensitive — age, Age, and AGE are all considered unique.
  - Variable names cannot be one of Python’s reserved keywords such as `if`, `class`, or `def`.
  - Variables names with multiple words are separated by underscores. Ex. `snake_case`.

- **`print()` function**: To print data to the console, you can use the `print()` function like this:

```py
print('Hello world!') # Hello world!
```

## Common Data Types in Python

- **Introduction**: Python is a dynamically-typed language like JavaScript, meaning you don't need to explicitly declare types for variables. The language knows what the type of a variable is based on what you assign to the variable. 
- **Integers**: Whole numbers without decimals:

```py
my_integer_var = 10
print('Integer:', my_integer_var) # Integer: 10
```

- **Floats**: Numbers with decimals:

```py
my_float_var = 4.50
print('Float:', my_float_var) # Float 4.50
```

- **Complex**: A number with a real and imaginary part:

```py
my_complex_var = 3 + 4j
print('Complex:', my_complex_var) # Complex: (3+4j)
```

- **Strings**: Sequence of characters wrapped in quotes:

```py
my_string_var = 'hello'
print('String:', my_string_var) # String: hello
```

- **Booleans**: A value representing either `True` or `False`:

```py
my_boolean_var = True
print("Boolean:", my_boolean_var) # Boolean: True
```

- **Sets**: An unordered collection of unique elements:

```py
my_set_var = {7, 5, 8}
print('Set:', my_set_var) # Set: {7, 5, 8}
```

- **Dictionaries**: A collection of key-value pairs, enclosed in curly braces:

```py
my_dictionary_var = {"name": "Alice", "age": 25}
print('Dictionary:', my_dictionary_var) # Dictionary: {'name': 'Alice', 'age': 25}
```

- **Tuples**: An immutable ordered collection, enclosed in brackets:

```py
my_tuple_var = (7, 5, 8)
print('Tuple:', my_tuple_var) # Tuple: (7, 5, 8)
```

- **Range**: A sequence of numbers, often used in loops:

```py
my_range_var = range(5)
print(my_range_var) # range(0, 5)
```

- **Lists**: An ordered collection of elements that supports different data types:

```py
my_list = [22, 'Hello world', 3.14, True]
print(my_list) # [22, 'Hello world', 3.14, True]
```

- **None**: A special value that represents the absence of a value:

```py
my_none_var = None
print('None:', my_none_var) # None: None
```

## Primitive and Reference Types

- **Primitive types**: These types are immutable, meaning you cannot change them once declared. They include integer, float, complex, boolean, string, and `None`.
- **Reference types**: These types are data types that can hold multiple values. They are either mutable or immutable. They include sequences like list, tuple, and range, set, and dictionary.
- **`type()` Function**: To see the type for a variable, you can use the `type()` function like this:

```py
greeting = 'Hello there!'
age = 21

print(type(greeting)) # <class 'str'>
print(type (age)) # <class 'int'>
```

- **`isinstance()` Function**: This is used to check if a variable matches a specific data type:

```py
isinstance('Hello world', str) # True
isinstance('John Doe', int) # False
```

TODO: Add remaining sections from lectures as well as caesar cipher workshop(if any new concepts are introduced there)


# --assignment--

Review the Python Basics topics and concepts.
