---
id: 65f529a39bc08f17a811bf8a
title: Explore Binary Logic
challengeType: 11
videoId: wgbV6DLVezo
dashedName: exp-bin-logic

---

# --description--
<br>
<br>
Computers use a special language called binary code, which is made up of just two numbers: 1 and 0. They use this language to do everything from showing you a movie to playing music.

In binary, computers use high and low voltages (like 5 volts and 0 volts) to represent the numbers 1 and 0. These voltages are used by the computer's brain, called the processor, to control other parts of the computer based on what you want to do, like watching a video or listening to music.

Each piece of information, like a number or a letter, is converted into binary code using specific rules. For example, the number 7 is represented as 111 in binary. Letters are also converted into binary, like the letter A is 01000001.

Binary code is used for all sorts of things, like storing pictures and sounds. In a video, each frame is made up of many tiny dots called pixels. Each pixel's color is represented by a set of binary numbers.

Even the sound in a video is stored as binary. Computers use a method called pulse code modulation to turn sound waves into binary numbers.

Although there are other types of computers being researched, like ternary and quantum computers, binary is still the most reliable and widely used. So, everything you see and hear on your computer is thanks to the clever use of binary code!

<h2>Hinglish</h2>
 
Computers binary code ka istemal karte hain, jo sirf do numbers se bana hota hai: 1 aur 0. Ye bhasha sab kuch karna mein madad karti hai, chahe wo aapko ek movie dikhana ho ya phir music bajana.

Binary mein, computers high aur low voltages ka istemal karte hain (jaise 5 volts aur 0 volts) 1 aur 0 ko represent karne ke liye. Ye voltages computer ke dimaag, jo processor kehlata hai, dwara istemal hoti hain dusre computer ke hisson ko control karne ke liye aapke kisi bhi kam ko, jaise video dekhna ya phir music sunna.

Har ek jankari, jaise ek number ya ek akshar, ko specific rules ka istemal karke binary code mein convert kiya jata hai. For example, number 7 ko binary mein 111 ke roop mein darshaya jata hai. Akshar bhi binary mein convert kiye jate hain, jaise akshar A ko 01000001 likha jata hai.

Binary code ko har tarah ki cheezon ke liye istemal kiya jata hai, jaise tasveeron aur awazon ko store karne ke liye. Ek video mein, har frame mein kai chote chote bindu hote hain jise pixels kehte hain. Har pixel ka rang ek set of binary numbers se darshaya jata hai.

Video mein awaz bhi binary mein store hoti hai. Computers awaz ko binary numbers mein tabdeel karne ke liye ek method ka istemal karte hain jo pulse code modulation kehlata hai.

Haan ki dusre tarah ke computers, jaise ternary aur quantum computers, par research ki ja rahi hai, lekin binary ab bhi sabse zyada reliable aur prachlit hai. Toh, har cheez jo aap apne computer par dekhte aur sunte hain, wo binary code ka chatur istemal ka hi natija hai!

# --question--


## --text--

Why do Computers Use Binary?

## --answers--

They know only two numbers 0 and 1.

---

They are made up of transistors.

---

Because it is easy to understand. 

## --video-solution--

2
