---
id: 65f529b6140df417f2a1f4a3
title: Understanding Computers
challengeType: 11
videoId: rRSD128KWIM
dashedName: understanding-comps

---

# --description--

Have you ever wondered how those awesome websites and games you use daily are made? This Intro to Programming with JavaScript course is your ultimate weapon to become a website warrior!

Forget boring lectures! We'll ditch the textbooks and dive headfirst into the exciting world of coding. You'll transform from a regular user to a website-building champion quickly!


Here's your path to coding mastery:

Become a Computer Guru: Learn how computers chat with each other, just like you chat with your friends on WhatsApp! (Except, it's way easier than those tricky emoji meanings!)
Unlock the Programming Masala Box: Discover the basic tools programmers use to create amazing things, just like a chef uses their spices to make delicious food! You'll be the master of your digital kitchen.
Meet JavaScript (JS), your Coding Buddy: JS is like the "King of Apps" in the programming world. You'll learn why and use it to write your first lines of code, just like writing your first "Namaste" in a new language!


By the end of this adventure, you'll be ready to create your games, animations, and more!  Who knows, maybe you'll even build the next big app!

<h2>Hinglish</h2>

Kya aapne kabhi socha hai ki aap roz istemal kiye jaane wale woh shandar websites aur games kaise banate hain? Ye Intro to Programming with JavaScript course aapki ultimate weapon hai website warrior banne ke liye!

Bhool jaiye boring lectures ko! Hum textbooks ko chhod denge aur seedhe code ki duniya mein dive karenge. Aap ek aam user se website-building champion banenge jaldi se!

Yahan hai aapke coding mastery ki raah:

Computer Guru Baney: Sikhiye kaise computers ek dusre se baat karte hain, bilkul waise hi jaise aap apne dost se WhatsApp par baat karte hain! (Bas, ye tricky emoji meanings se kahin zyada aasan hai!)
Programming Masala Box Ko Unlock Karein: Jaaniye basic tools jo programmers istemal karte hain amazing cheezon ko create karne ke liye, bilkul waise jaise ek chef apne masale istemal karta hai swadisht khana banane ke liye! Aap apne digital kitchen ke master ban jaenge.
JavaScript (JS) Se Milen, Aapka Coding Buddy: JS programming duniya mein "Apps ka Badshah" hai. Aap jaanenge iske baare mein kyun aur iska istemal karke aap apne pehle code ki lines likhenge, bilkul waise jaise aap kisi naye bhasha mein apna pehla "Namaste" likhte hain!

Is adventure ke ant tak, aap apne khud ke games, animations, aur aur bhi banane ke liye tayar honge! Kaun jane, shayad aap agle bade app ko bhi banayenge!

# --question--

## --text--

State True or False.

Earlier Compuetrs took a lot of Space and Time>

## --answers--

True

---

False


## --video-solution--

1
