guide/english/html/tutorials/embedding-youtube-videos/index.md, before:

---
title: Embedding Youtube Videos
---
## Embedding Youtube Videos

Probably a lot of times you have seen embedded videos on your favorite websites. Today we will talk about embedding YouTube videos, what is very easy to do, even if you don't have any knowledge about it. For this action we will use `<frame>` element, which is very useful in embedding other HTMLs. It's very often used to promote some products as adds. Notice that you're not only limited to YouTube - you can also experiment with other documents.

### `<frame>` Element

#### Using
You can easily put your chosen video by using `<frame>` element. But remember, you also need to define height and width of your player, so we will use attributes `height` and `width`.

What we will need?
- Video on YouTube and URL
- `<frame>` element (don't forget to close it!)
- `width` and `height` attributes

```html
<iframe width="420" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v8kFT4I31es">
</iframe>
```

Inserted values are recommended, but feel free to change them in a way that you would like.

#### Autoplay
What should we do if we would like to make this player starting automatically playing? Just add to your link value `?autoplay=1`. But be careful, because it can be annoying for a lot of people visiting your webpage.

```html
<iframe width="420" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v8kFT4I31es?autoplay=1">
</iframe>
```

Commit message:

Changed the text information and grammar
Fixed some points that were incorrect, fixed the grammar, changed the code example so that it works, rewrote the text to make it easier to read and comprehend.

guide/english/html/tutorials/embedding-youtube-videos/index.md, after:

---
title: Embedding Youtube Videos
---
## Embedding Youtube Videos

You've probably seen a lot of embedded videos on your favourite websites. So, how do we embed YouTube videos for our own website? Simple! In order to embed a YouTube video, we'll need an `<iframe>` element. This element allows us to embed another document in our current HTML document.

<br/>Note: Don't mix up `<iframe>` with `<frame>`! While seemingly alike, the fundamental difference is that `<iframe>` specifies an inline frame, and is used to add content, while `<frame>` divides the page into different 'frames', and is used to define layouts.
### The `<iframe>` Element

#### Usage
You can easily put your chosen video in by using the `<iframe>` element. You should also define the width and height of the actual player, so we will use attributes `height` and `width` for that.
<br/>Here's how to embed an example video.
```html
<iframe width="420" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/v8kFT4I31es">
</iframe>
```
We've specified the video player to be 420 pixels wide and 315 pixels high, and we've taken the source from the <b>embedded</b> youtube link. This should now open up the welcome video to your favourite website's YouTube channel, `https://www.freecodecamp.org`! 
<br/>You'll need to use the embedded video link in order to actually embed and watch the video.<br/>
<br/>Alternatively, you can copy and paste the youtube embed code onto your website.
