guide/english/working-in-tech/index.md, before:

---
title: Working in Tech
---
## Working in Tech

A wide variety of technology-related fields such as web development, design, data science, and product management are often lumped into the catch-all term "tech."

This section will focus on various aspects of working in tech. We will discuss the additional career challenges that under-represented minorities and people from non-traditional education backgrounds face. This includes issues such as sexism and ageism that have been particularly prevalent in certain industries and organizations. 

### Computer Security

The field of computer security is growing at a rapid rate every year, in a report done recently it is estimated that by 2021 their will be 3.5 million jobs unfilled. The demand is due to the increase in cyber attacks and with how much data is being created everyday, data is so valuable nowadays and it needs to be kept secure and safe.

### Examples of Tech related jobs
- Software Developer
- Computer Systems Analyst
- Web Developer
- IT Manager
- Computer Systems Administrator
- Network Administrator
- Support Desk Engineer
- Security Engineer

### Books

[About Face: The Essentials of Interaction Design](https://amzn.to/2uwtugk)

[Thinking in Systems: A Primer](https://amzn.to/2u6FbJF)

[Thinking, Fast and Slow](https://amzn.to/2tnnlTN)

[Learn You a Haskell for Great Good!](https://amzn.to/2veOjdv)

[Think Like a Programmer](https://www.nostarch.com/thinklikeaprogrammer)

Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products: amzn.to/2bVG5AQ

"Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead" by Sheryl Sandberg http://amzn.to/2igRgoq

To see the full list, visit: https://talkpython.fm/episodes/show/130/10-books-python-developers-should-be-reading

### Articles

* [We fired our top talent. Best decision we ever made.](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/we-fired-our-top-talent-best-decision-we-ever-made-4c0a99728fde)
* [You fired your top talent. I hope you’re happy.](https://medium.com/@deusexmachina667/you-fired-your-top-talent-i-hope-youre-happy-cf57c41183dd)
* [How to run a successful development process (even if you’re not technical)](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-to-run-a-successful-development-process-even-if-youre-not-technical-185d0558c89a)
* [What is technical debt? And why does almost every startup have it?](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/what-is-technical-debt-and-why-do-most-startups-have-it-9a54458daabf)
* [How you can land a 6-figure job In tech with no connections — tips that got me job offers from Google and other tech giants](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-you-can-land-a-6-figure-job-in-tech-with-no-connections-6eed0de26ea4)
* [The Complete Software Developer's Career Guide](https://simpleprogrammer.com/products/careerguide/)

### Podcasts
[10 Books Python Developers should be reading - talkpython.fm](https://talkpython.fm/episodes/show/130/10-books-python-developers-should-be-reading)

Commit message:

Added a few books to the list and reformatted some links
Reformatted some links and ddded in the following books:
- The Pragmatic Programmer
- The Mythical Man-Month
- Cracking the Coding Interview
- Introduction to Algorithms
- Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software
- How to Win Friends & Influence People
- Clean Code

guide/english/working-in-tech/index.md, after:

---
title: Working in Tech
---
## Working in Tech

A wide variety of technology-related fields such as web development, design, data science, and product management are often lumped into the catch-all term "tech."

This section will focus on various aspects of working in tech. We will discuss the additional career challenges that under-represented minorities and people from non-traditional education backgrounds face. This includes issues such as sexism and ageism that have been particularly prevalent in certain industries and organizations. 

### Computer Security

The field of computer security is growing at a rapid rate every year, in a report done recently it is estimated that by 2021 their will be 3.5 million jobs unfilled. The demand is due to the increase in cyber attacks and with how much data is being created everyday, data is so valuable nowadays and it needs to be kept secure and safe.

### Examples of Tech related jobs
- Software Developer
- Computer Systems Analyst
- Web Developer
- IT Manager
- Computer Systems Administrator
- Network Administrator
- Support Desk Engineer
- Security Engineer

### Books

[About Face: The Essentials of Interaction Design](https://amzn.to/2uwtugk)

[Thinking in Systems: A Primer](https://amzn.to/2u6FbJF)

[Thinking, Fast and Slow](https://amzn.to/2tnnlTN)

[How to Win Friends & Influence People](https://www.amazon.com/How-Win-Friends-Influence-People/dp/0671027034/)

[Learn You a Haskell for Great Good!](https://amzn.to/2veOjdv)

[Think Like a Programmer](https://www.nostarch.com/thinklikeaprogrammer)

[The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering](https://www.amazon.com/Mythical-Man-Month-Software-Engineering-Anniversary/dp/0201835959)

[The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master](https://www.amazon.com/Pragmatic-Programmer-Journeyman-Master/dp/020161622X)

[Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship](https://www.amazon.com/Clean-Code-Handbook-Software-Craftsmanship/dp/0132350882/)

[Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software](https://www.amazon.com/Design-Patterns-Elements-Reusable-Object-Oriented-ebook/dp/B000SEIBB8)

[Cracking the Coding Interview: 189 Programming Questions and Solutions](https://www.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/0984782850/)

[Introduction to Algorithms](https://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Algorithms-3rd-MIT-Press/dp/0262033844)

[Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products](https://amzn.to/2bVG5AQ)

[Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead by Sheryl Sandberg](http://amzn.to/2igRgoq)

To see the full list, visit: https://talkpython.fm/episodes/show/130/10-books-python-developers-should-be-reading

### Articles

* [We fired our top talent. Best decision we ever made.](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/we-fired-our-top-talent-best-decision-we-ever-made-4c0a99728fde)
* [You fired your top talent. I hope you’re happy.](https://medium.com/@deusexmachina667/you-fired-your-top-talent-i-hope-youre-happy-cf57c41183dd)
* [How to run a successful development process (even if you’re not technical)](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-to-run-a-successful-development-process-even-if-youre-not-technical-185d0558c89a)
* [What is technical debt? And why does almost every startup have it?](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/what-is-technical-debt-and-why-do-most-startups-have-it-9a54458daabf)
* [How you can land a 6-figure job In tech with no connections — tips that got me job offers from Google and other tech giants](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-you-can-land-a-6-figure-job-in-tech-with-no-connections-6eed0de26ea4)
* [The Complete Software Developer's Career Guide](https://simpleprogrammer.com/products/careerguide/)

### Podcasts
[10 Books Python Developers should be reading - talkpython.fm](https://talkpython.fm/episodes/show/130/10-books-python-developers-should-be-reading)
