---
id: 67baf1ccc881490599686ae3
title: Task 75
challengeType: 19
dashedName: task-75
---

<!-- (Audio) David: It builds team spirit and makes problem-solving easier. -->

# --instructions--

Listen to the audio and answer the question below.

# --questions--

## --text--

What does David think about working in the office?

## --answers--

It reduces teamwork and makes solving problems harder.

### --feedback--

David believes the office environment improves workflow, not the opposite.

---

It has no effect on collaboration or teamwork.

### --feedback--

David suggests that working in the office makes job easier.

---

It is unnecessary because remote work is always better.

### --feedback--

David supports office work because he believes it has benefits.

---

It helps build team spirit and makes problem-solving easier.

## --video-solution--

4

# --explanation--

`Team spirit` is the feeling of connection and cooperation among employees. For example:

- `A strong team spirit helps developers collaborate more effectively.` - When a team works well together, they can solve problems faster.

- `Celebrating small wins boosts team spirit and motivation.` - Recognizing achievements keeps the team engaged and motivated.

`Problem-solving` means finding solutions to challenges. For example:

- `Good problem-solving requires both creativity and logical thinking.` - Finding solutions often involves a mix of innovation and analysis.

- `Problem-solving skills are essential for debugging complex software issues.` - Developers must find and fix errors in their code.
